# Servo TSC Meeting May 2026

* Date: [Monday 25th May 2026 at 15:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Servo%20TSC%20Meeting%20May%202026%20(2026-05-25)&iso=20260525T1500)
* Location: https://meet.jit.si/Servo-TSC
* Agenda: https://github.com/servo/project/issues/232

## Agenda

* Status update
* Release cycle and blog posts
* How to deal with reported vulnerabilities
* Outreach
* AOB

## Notes

Attending:
* TSC members: atbrakhi, jschwe, mrego, mrobinson, nicoburns, SimonSapin, simonwuelker
* Other: niyabits, NyIme

### Status update

rego: This includes work in April. The blog post is upcoming. Work in many areas:
* IndexedDB
* Santizer API
* Accessibility
* Devtools: Support for style editor tab
* Sequential focus navigation
* Lots of contenteditable work
* Layout performance improvements

### Release cycle and blog posts

rego: We are releasing at the start of the month, but the blog post is at the end of the month. Announcement comes 3-4 weeks after the release itself. We get very good changelogs this ways. Keep doing this or decouple releases from blog post? Perhaps we can use the weekly social highlights or keep doing what we are doing?

nico: Why does it take so long to do the blog post. I get that it's going to take 2-3 weeks, but surely it is going to be done for the month that is already happening rather than for the previous month.

rego: There have been months with 500 commits. Sometimes it takes a while. Usually Josh and Delan working on this. It hasn't been possible to catch up so far. If you want a good narrative on the blog post, having a whole picture of what happened in the month is important. Maybe something important lands in the last part of the month.

nico: That's fair. If we cannot, then my preference would be that we just release the crates.io version at the start of the month and then do the blog post whenever that's ready and it refers back to whatever version of Servo is relevant.

simon: If we have 500 commits per month, is it the case that many of them are less relevant and don't need to be relevant. Could we use labels to use some of the work up front.

rego: This was discussed, but that hasn't been done yet.

jonathan: I think from my perspective, when the label thing was proposed both Josh and Delan were skeptical about it. It moves from two people who are used to writing the blog post to people who aren't used to it. Probably we want to keep that consistent.

rego: Nico mentioned he'd be fine releasing without the blog post.

simon: I also think it's fine to have a release available before it's announced. The reverse would be weird, but this way is fine, I think.

jonathan: I also would be fine either way. The downside is that Phoronix articles would be less accurate (based on things like git release changelogs).

nico: Regarding Phoronix picking stuff up. Presumably they are picking up GitHub release and not crates.io release. Would it make sense to not publish GitHub release? Maybe not.

rego: Phoronix usually follows our blog. If they get de-synced we'll see what happens.

rego: Conclusion is release at start of month and do blog post later.

### How to deal with reported vulnerabilities

jonathan: For those of you who are also maintainers, Josh has added us to a few vulnerabilities on the project. Person was asking for a CVE. Not sure what we should do when the project state, but pretty expected given the current state of Servo.

martin: what would be the process to start releasing CVEs?

jonathan: There should be a button to press on the GitHub interface. Once you got through the whole process GitHub will assign an issue. Josh has done has for other crates (thin-vec) and I think the same could be done in Servo theoretically.

martin: we have then to tag them in the release notes, when do releases

jonathan: yeah we should mention them
martin: we should weight the pros and cons, I guess we can get many CVEs, maybe more people would like to report issues to be associated with that CVE

jonthan: Yeah, I guess so. There is the issue of whether or not they used AI tooling to write issue.

nico: Are we fixing this issue generally? I suspect that we know there are many issues in Servo that we aren't in a position to fix.

jonathan: At least for the issues raised in the past few days, 3 out of 4 are addressed. I don't think many people are actively looking into them, but I would look as long as it is approachable.

nico: Another trade-off is that is assigns priority to these issues that would otherwise not get bumped to the top of the queue.

jonathan: Yes, a priority signal in a way.

nico: I don't really have a strong sense of what to do here is. I'm not personally involved in looking at them or fixing them.
Ideally, we'd report all of these and fix them all. Whether we are in that state, I'm not sure.

rego: We were also getting some issues from Chromium fuzzers which are reported on Chromium bug tracker.

martin: the chromium fuzzer was fuzzing rust-url only, as it's used by other projects that's probably even more important

martin: about the priority of the security issues, if an issue is in something that no one is working on right now, maybe it's not a priority; but if it's an issue on things we've recently changed or are working on them, probably the people working on that area should fix the issue

martin: we need to balance between moving on and making servo more secure by fixing them

rego: Should we move discussion to Zulip?

jonathan: I guess we can wait until Josh is back as he has more experience using GitHub's security issue support.

### Outreach

rego: Josh's talk at RustWeeK: https://www.youtube.com/live/0vhGWclF7LU?t=25044s

rego: A few folks attended RustWeek. Talk from Josh. You can watch it now if you haven't from livestream. They will probably publish it as a separate video soon.rego: Web Engines Hackfest 2026: https://webengineshackfest.org/

rego: There will be a bunch of Servo folks at WEH happening A Coruña in a few weeks.

### AOB

martin: Outreachy has started, you can say hello to our new intern Niya

nico: what is the project for the oureachy intern?

rego: I think that the project is the AudioWorklet in Servo. There was a bit of a change in project, but this is the final decision.

