# Servo TSC Meeting December 2025

* Date: [Monday 15th Dec 2025 at 10:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Servo%20TSC%20Meeting%20December%202025%20(2025-12-15)&iso=20251215T1000)
* Location: https://meet.jit.si/Servo-TSC
* Agenda: https://github.com/servo/project/issues/199

## Agenda

* Status update
* Elections (chair, secretary)
* Git dependencies (see https://github.com/servo/servo/issues/25650)
* crates.io ownership of our Servo crates
* Outreach
* AOB
  * IPC channel

## Notes

Attending:
* TSC members: emilio, delan, jschwe, mrego, mrobinson, mukilan, nicoburns
* Other: narfinger

### Status update

rego: lots of new contributors and PRs. thanks everyone! this year more than 3000 not counting bots. nice progress.

rego: some highlights: releases happening monthly. now we are on 0.0.3. lots of progress in WebView API - multi-window support and context menu. Experimenting with a11y support - work in progress. Other work - devtools, webdriver etc. Bunch of CI improvements - running WPT tests in dedicated.

rego: Four bronze sponsor since announcements.

rego: https://servo.org/#sponsors

### Elections (chair, secretary)

rego: elections for chair and secretarty. Martin and rego are fine staying in current positions. If not objections, we can continue with current folks.

jonathan: I'm fine with it

emilio: +1, thanks for all your work ðŸ˜ƒ

### Git dependencies (see https://github.com/servo/servo/issues/25650)

rego: Topic from while ago in the agenda - Avoiding git dependencies outside servo org. Not sure if discussion happened on Zulip

martin: Forbidding third-party git dependencies, we depend on dependencies that are in crates.io and that are from our git repositories, and we have gradually remove dependencies with things that are outside; we don't have a policy to don't add more like this anymore

martin: probably we could have the chance to do this for something like Vello, that we might depend on features not released yet and want to add a dependency; do we want to setup a policy on this?

emilio: The main concern is when the build breaks. There may be another thing that we could which is to use vendored dependencies. That has a totally different set of trade-offs. Allows building offline and doesn't allow breaking builds.

martin: I think we're able to refer in cargo to a commit hash, if that hash ever disappear it could start breaking, maybe that addressed some of those concerns

martin: not sure what's the original goal, ideally we should use releases on crates.io, not sure what are hte other benefits

christian: part of the goal was because git clones are slow in ci

jonathan: Part of my reason for wanting to disallow git dependencies, stronger than proposal we are talking about: required if we want to publish to crates.io. Another benefit of restricting this.

emilio: It all depends on what we are trying to fix. I agree that requiring git hashes seems uncontroversial thing, because you should always specify as completely as possible. I agree long-term it would be nice to not have git dependencies at all, but nice for local build typing -- may want to experiment with a crate, but making some additions to it. Feels weird to have a policy against that. If / when we release to crates.io, that version shouldn't depend on them. Not sure banning as a matter of policy is useful.

nico: Doesn't sound like any of the motivations that have been raised so far are really different than 3rd party git repositories of servo repositories, sort of the same for internal git repositories as well. Maybe a thing around git hashes disappearing, but could solve by having a Servo mirror of the git repository. Should have a policy around git dependencies in general.

jonathan: Yeah, I guess that this circles back to the discussion about what our release process should be. One solution is we do allow git dependencies, but only if we expect that there is a versioned release of that dependency before the next release. Otherwise it might be hard to have the policy ensure that a release is actually possible. Would be nice to have this policy in place, so that we can actually make crates.io release.

nico: I'm keen to have Servo published to crates.io. That would open up the audience of people who realize that it is ready to use. Sell some technical things, like if you want to use Servo you don't have to manually clone the repository yourself, but Cargo will clone and build for you.

nico: Will prevent other people from publishing, unless they clone all the crates. Move toward every six months or so when we do a release, we enforce this policy so we can do a release.

nico: No real way to run WPT test to without depending on experimental crates. (??) My thought is temporary policy around release times. People who release should be able to push a forked version of dependency to crates.io. We depend on a bunch of things like WebDriver from Mozilla. Some of those we have release policy, but others are owned by Mozilla. We need to put a process in place for ones like CSP or have our own schedule.

christian: Most of git dependencies are denoted by a branch. Why this and not fixed version? Add a fixed hash to that or keep the branch structure?

nico: The current process is that there is a hash, but only in the Cargo.lock file, but not in the Cargo.toml file. Worth pointing out that if you depend on Servo via  git dependency, that lock file is not going to apply. We are not currently putting dependencies there. Should put the hash in the Cargo.toml so that we are effectively pinning.

martin: to summarize, there are 2 different proposals:

martin: 1. We have a policy to prevent external git dependencies within Servo.

martin: 2. We have this policy, but only in the time around big releases (every six months or so). We just hope that we can make sure that the git dependencies are released to crates.io during this time.

emilio: I think there might be consensus to turn all of our git dependencies into git hashes instead of branches. As it interacts with our release process and how it interacts with crates.io. I think we can all get consensus on this point.

martin: that would be assuming that WebRender is actually released to crates.io, which should be totally possible, going forward that applies mostly to stylo

nico: A few others: media crate (maybe move in), and the CSP crate (we have a downstream fork of) tim and josh deal with that crate. There are a couple others that we depend on git version that we sometimes do like html5ever, etc.

emilio: Whatever we do here, I think that it would be a bad idea here to prevent it. You should be able to run WPT with this. Should forbid it at some level that allows it to run CI.

jonathan: Should be no problem. We already have lints in place that prevent these sort of things that still allow running WPT even though lint fails.

martin: the lint job, which is the one that forces crates policies, and the WPT job are separated. An action point for me would be to start releasing WebRender, so we stop using the branch, I'll add that to my list

### crates.io ownership of our Servo crates

jonathan: Currently we have a Github team with rights to crate publishing, but teams don't have full ownership. If you are added via a team, you cannot transfer ownership / add or remove owners. To do that you have to be added directly. Most of crates are owned by people who are more or less active. In some cases not active any more. In some cases, owners are deceased. In most cases not a problem, because publish via Github group. If we ever move away from Github it could be an issue because the team no longer applies. I want to bring this up to see what people think.

jonathan: I personally think this is something we should pursue, but I don't want to make it seem like I'm trying to take something away from people who were previously more important in the ecosystem.

martin: you make a really great point, specially if we have to move away from GitHub as that would mess our stuff; I think it's something we can do sooner than later, maybe we don't have to take away anything, as there can be multiple-owners, we have to add the rest of crates owners

martin: the only downside, is that if we end up changing some crates, we'll need to look into all of them, it'd be nice if crates.io have some kind of team

nico: I think it makes sense to take care of this now. There are also supply chain issues to have people no longer involved in the project. In Zulip we are tracking one crate that is related to a Github account that a person no longer has access to. In some cases people are no longer involved in the Servo project -- but maybe involved in that crate.

nico: I've posted a link in the chat to a spreadsheet. Started trying to track which crates come from which repositories and informally who is maintaining what crate.

nico: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1CNEPUytBMTZWUCZ1MgXPaMRuh6EIL10ykYabzw1fnME/edit?gid=757091964#gid=757091964

martin: it's great effort, it probably makes sense to move it either to the book or some wikipage or something that is managed internally in the project and is keep up to date, it seems very valuable to have something like this

nico: I agree that a more polished version of this that is publicly viewable makes sense. Not just a record of ownership, but also a list of crates that people can browse.

rego: From initial point we agree that it would be nice to add admins from crates.io even if we don't have to remove the old people, we decide that we can add the admins there. Doesn't make sense to keep people not very involved there any longer. If they are ever interested again, we can add them back.

### Outreach

rego: https://servo.org/about/#presentations

rego: I don't think there has been a lot to update here. A few videos that have published linked from Outreach page. Video from GOSIM will be published once available. Will be some Servo folks at FOSDEM. Not sure if there will be talks there or not. We can announce them in the next TSC call in the week before FOSDEM.

### AOB

#### IPC channel

christian: With switch to generic channels, we are getting less and less testing with ipc channels. Not familiar with Github actions. Want to ask general opinion.

jonathan: I think everybody would agree that it would be best to test both configurations. Testing times of WPT tests is very long right now. Running them twice sounds like a lot. We also have a lot of flaky tests.

martin: I don't know about the possibility of running both, if we run one we should try to make sure is the multi-process version, as it's probably the one that is going to have version; as usually if the multi-process version works, the single process will also work

delan: If we want to run both for some time, we should be able to do it in parallel with single process tests. I think it would be a lot more feasible one self-hosted runners run WPT tests. Then we could have three jobs per configuration instead of 20.

rego: Other topics?

rego: No more topics, this is over.

