# Servo Technical Steering Committee Meeting

Date: 2021-06-11
Location: Zoom

## Agenda

* Approve 2021-04 meeting minutes

* Report from the Infrastructure subcommittee

* Servo technical meeting

* TSC recruiting

* Next TSC meeting: 2021-08

* Any Other Business

## Notes

attending: jdm, ajeffrey, mrobinson, cybai, manishearth

ajeffrey: approve last time’s minutes? No objections? done.

jdm: we’re off of taskcluster! Still technically connecting for every homu run, but just running an empty decision task. Macstadium should no longer be billing us, too.

ajeffrey: hooray, we hit the deadline! I will report this at the next board meeting.

ajeffrey: do we still want to make the servo technical day happen? Work split: I come up with materials about XR, jdm focuses on script + bindings?

jdm: you said you’d create some kind of survey for potential attendees. We could send something on twitter, too.

ajeffrey: oh, yes. I’ll make a note to actually create that.

ajeffrey: would like to get new TSC members who have desire to use servo in their own projects.

Jdm: the technical day is probably the best avenue for that. Gather attendees who are interested, have materials that show how to change common parts, spark interest.

Jdm: one neat thing recently - someone has been keeping spider monkey bindings up to date every time a new version is released.

ajeffrey: impressive velocity there!

manishearth: might be worth reaching out to find out what their interest is, what they’re using it for.

ajeffrey: are they on the list of approved reviewers?

jdm: not yet.

ajeffrey: previously that’s how we established TSC candidacy.

Manishearth: should think about if we still want that to be 1:1.

ajeffrey: keep an eye out for other good candidates who show an interest in the project! It would be good to have some new blood by the one year anniversary in October.
