# Servo TSC Meeting June 2026

* Date: [Monday 29th Jun 2026 at 09:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Servo%20TSC%20Meeting%20June%202026%20(2026-06-29)&iso=20260629T0900)
* Location: https://meet.jit.si/Servo-TSC
* Agenda: https://github.com/servo/project/issues/235

## Agenda

* Status update
* Outreach
* AOB

## Notes

Attending:
* TSC members: delan, emilio, jschwe, Loirooriol, mrego, mrobinson, mukilan, nicoburns, SimonSapin, simonwuelker
* Other: kkoyung, ststimac, yezhizhen

### Status update

rego: A lot of work this month as usual. Thank you.

- SharedWorker support. Improved passed rate.
- PointerCapture API
- Work on animations.
- Android migrating to Kotlin
- More Devtools fixes
- Lots of layout performance work and optimization
- Many other things I'm missing.

rego: As usual monthly blogpost gives more info.

rego: Outreachy intern blog: https://text.tchncs.de/niya/beginning-and-motivation-of-a-servo-intern-in-outreachy

rego: Outreachy internship ongoing. The intern has written a blog post (listed above).

### Outreach

rego: 3 breakout sessions at the hackfest: https://github.com/Igalia/webengineshackfest/issues/96, https://github.com/Igalia/webengineshackfest/issues/84, https://github.com/Igalia/webengineshackfest/issues/73

rego: A bunch of us attended Web Engines Hackfest. Good time and interesting discussions.

rego: Not aware of Servo-related events upcoming. RustConf in September. Rakhi has a talk. If there are other talks upcoming, let us know so we can make noise about it.

### AOB

martin: discuss the idea of request to implement and to ship process? start collecting criteria

rego: looks fine to talk about it, we have time

martin: we have talked a few times about it, my concern every new feature we add adds a source of overhead, which is fine, that's not a problem itself; the issue is that we have many half-done features, we spend a bunch of time finishing them and fixing issues on them; we have been working in incremental layout and I have noticed how many regressions and panics it caused; so I'm concerned about big complicated features we might need some level of justification for them and understand the commitment that people are making when they add new features (very fun), but it's less fun to do the other 100 PRs that take to complete things later

martin: we probably aren't going to get Servo into a great place, if we just drop 1-2 PRs for a big feature; other people would need to spend a bunch of time to fix panics, flaky issues and so on; so we might have some process, or expect for things we know that we need but are our own responsibilities, things that are BWA

emilio: At the end of your intervention you mentioned the key point. You don't want to add friction for things you know you need. Dropping a random feature maybe does need discussion and review. Even just the initial patch with the WebIDL imports could be useful. That could be a streamlined thing. Especially for features that you don't want to commit to maintaining. You want to make sure it doesn't end up being that part of the code that nobody every touches.

martin: you make a really great point, for things that we need, there's sometimes some discussion about some of these things, not an expert but for example IndexedDB, the patch was reviewed by a bunch of people, it landed, but has issues, still needs architectural changes; not sure what to do in those cases, is it better to land a kind of broken version, or we require people to do things step by step and do things properly; reviewer time is a concern here, reviewing a big change adding IndexedDB support is very tricky; it's better to land and fix slowly?

emilio: Maybe one part of this process would be comparison for big features. Having a plan of what we are doing and how it compares to shipping browsers. I agree that reviewing 10,000 lines of code without extra context doesn't make sense. I think for those cases, I think it makes sense to have a discussion for the goal and what to do. Not having it is better than spending a lot of time reviewing it and then having to rewrite it anyway.

simon: Ideally it would be nice before we get to 10,000 lines to have a plan for how to review it and work together with a reviewer with how to merge incrementally smaller pieces.

jonathan: I wanted to ask regarding IndexedDB specifically. Usually we have those features behind a preference. Did we experience crashes with the feature even off?

martin: the issue is that the feature gets turn on for the tests, so the WPT runs get flaky, WPT runs also enable experimental features; people using Servo might not notice it, but all of use notice it while working on Servo

simon: can we have a preference only for 1 directory?

martin: we do that sometimes, but it's hard, there can be flaky tests, then issues coming later, maybe the people familiar with the code is gone

emilio: I think aggressively disabling or skipping tests for incomplete features makes sense. It shouldn't block other work.

jonathan: I guess my concern is that we have two different problems. One is that we want to avoid flaky tests as much as possible. The longer you work on a change out of tree, the harder it is to work on it.

jonathan: If in the end if you have a 10k or 20k PR, it can be very difficult, compared to merging it incrementally. I wonder if we can adjust this problem by splitting the WPT run by which features are necessary where. This is something we could use for features that are in progress and not stable enough yet.

simon: I don't think that would help because it is the IndexedDB tests which are flaky. I think what make sense is to only enable feature for tests that are definitely flaky.

nico: If the issue is test flakiness then the issue to allow easily running tests locally or to mark them as not blocking the WPT.

jonthan: For WebGPU we only run the tests on demand and affect merging. Might make sense to reduce pressure on CI. Not great that expectations get out of sync.

martin: flaky tests are one thing, but a broader issue is a general problem with some features that no one is looking after them, or have a general vision to move them to a state of completeness, maybe it makes sense (maybe too radical) for a major feature to IndexedDB, we suggest outside contributors to only fix bugs and not implement big features; maybe a small CSS property; but things that are multi-year project like IndexedDB is more complex; maybe there is some community expectations too

nico: I see where you are coming from. It's a bit of a problem if someone comes up and does a half-quality implementation of a big feature. On the other hand, if someone does stick around to finish something and become a maintainer. Maybe it's a bit less strict. If you come into Zulip say hi and write a plan, it's okay then.
For features that are half implemented or that are implemented. I don't already know which ones we have implemented and who is responsible for them. I have an informal idea from being around. Firefox and Mozilla have different areas and a list of people responsible for maintaining those areas. Obviously we have fewer people. Features and tracking implementation state / ownership.Nico Burns: Mozilla module ownership: https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/mots/

martin: I agree, if someone is new and really motivated and come up with a plan and have thought about it, it's a different situation; than rebasing a half-done big patch; we have probably not enough people to have ownership of different parts, how do we grow that team, sometimes I get the feeling of being alone, if I don't fix this, not sure if someone else would fix this issue, like working in some panics, not sure if others will work on them; figure out how to get more owners

emilio: The last thing you mentioned is kind of a different thing. How do we prioritize fixes? If something is panicking, someone should jump on it. Is there a sense of whether something is high priority? Is there a sense that maintenance tasks have higher priority. How do I get a list of the panics that are important right now?

martin: maybe this is a separated topic we can talk about now, for example someone from Igalia has been fuzzing Servo and has come out with a very nice list of panics, maybe fuzzing should be a short term goal for Servo and we should talk about that

nico: On the topic of panic fixing being higher priority than feature work. I feel like we have a higher number of panics than other projects. Though I guess panics can be in safe code. I guess the roots in being an experimental codebase means we have quite a lot. We have a small number of maintainers who feel a responsibility to fix things rather than being volunteers who want to work on whatever they want to work on.

nico: I feel like it might be a case where if we fixed a lot of panics once. I have a love / hate relationship with Fred's bugs.

martin: maybe we can talk about automated fuzzing as a separated topic, I have some ideas of what we can do there
martin: fred has a repository with scripts to fuzz servo, maybe we can get this to work automatically or something that someone can run locally, it looks we're getting less the more we work on this, the priority should be higher; priorities for me: 1 CI is working, 2 are there fuzzing/panic issues, 3 if any of those panics are related to your work, you should fix it, 4 then features; feel like those have to be blocking or they won't get fixed, but first we have to get to a point where mostly it doesn't panic, we're getting close, but we might need a process in place

Euclid Ye: There was a discussion earlier about potential new policy to add new feature and make sure it is not abandoned in the middle: https://servo.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/465199/topic/2026-02-23/near/575264869

nico: Yeah, I kind of agree. I think it's difficult to enforce. I think it might be worth to have a priority assigned to panics. I've been looking at the CSS Grid panics, but having said that, these panics are occurring with weird grids. That's something that's unlikely to be something you hit in practice. Often I've found that it's the same 2-3 panics.

martin: It'd be interested to hear what folks working in other browser engines, how panics and crashes are prioritize over other work, maybe it's something we can learn from that; in particular emilio and oriol have experience in other engines; a crash is different than a panic, but how things are handled on those projects

emilio: in Firefox it depends on the whether the crash is security sensitive. A random nullptr crash -- we fix those, but it's not the same as a whole browser crash that has security implications. Regular crashes you prioritize based on crash volume -- which is something that Servo doesn't have data for. If it happens in automation, you prioritize it further. Otherwise they get triaged as any regular bug -- no differently. Security crashes get prioritized as a high volume crash.

oriol: Something that I remember happens when working Chromium is that when a fuzzer detects a new crash, it can bisect when a crash started, sometimes it doesn't work well --sometimes it does. Even if it cannot find the exact commit that introduced the problem, it may try to guess. When this issue about the crash gets filed, it automatically assigns the person who it thinks caused the problem. Even if the assignment is wrong, it assigns it to the right person. When this has happened to me, I try to address it. Something like that, automatic assignment will would help the person address it. I think something like that could be useful.

emilio: What Oriol says is really important. Finding an owner for an issue is pretty much half the work. If it's a crash that's a regression -- as soon as the regressing culprit is found it becomes their problem. If that's something that Servo isn't doing, it should. GitHub is pretty bad at managing that thing. If you cause a crash and fix it, it should be fine. Regressions identified quickly should be fixed quickly.

martin: fuzzing rounds might find a bunch of issues, if a fuzzer can found something very frequently those maybe have to have higher priority; the fuzzing report could tag people

emilio: Yeah, we have the concept of fuzz blockers which is what you mention. fuzz blockers get treated with the high severity. If a fuzzer can find a bug can a bug 1/10 of the time, it should be high priority.

nico: I feel like it might be useful to run Servo in an automated way against actual web sites that could give us some priority as well.

rego: One thing derailing from the original point. Do we want to come back to request to ship?

martin: for the request thing is on me do to a proposal and vote on it

jonathan: I think that regarding request to ship / request to implement. We have a base consensus. I guess we can do it a big more informally in the book draft and then later in the TSC, but I guess most people are onboard.

martin: basically for the general idea, would be for things that are outside of BWA or large projects that aren't finished, you have to make a request-to-implement including a small report about the feature, what's involved, supported by other browser, sort of commitment to implementation completeness and maintenance, and maybe something along the lines of implementation plans, this would be for features that are less common like WebNN, and just a quick vote of the TSC based on that request; and for request-to-ship, a small report about how complete the feature is, and why it makes sense to turn it on, another quick vote on zulip

nico: I definitely think that a list of the features that we already have implemented is useful. For tracking / TSC members not familiar with what we already have -- that would be helpful. Another useful concept would be module owners. For something like WebNN, that's a bit different. If it's a layout feature or graphics feature where there is an owner, it might be useful to have people who can make decision amongst a smaller group. Those people could be responsible for making a decision.

rego: I think the process is more complex than in any other engine. Maybe that's a too-high barrier. For Chromium for request to prototype it's just send the proposal and if no one complains, it's approved. Intent to ship only requires three votes. It's fine to have a process, but we need to have a balance.

martin: I understand the mechanism would be a bit more complex, you wouldn't need this for most things we're implementing, for things like BWA we don't need it; the actual thing that we send it's way less complicated than in Chromium and all that, the process is less complex

rego: We wouldn't be voting for Baseline Widely Available for intent to ship.

martin: that's a good question, for request-to-ship maybe for things in BWA is a lighter process

martin: maybe this is only about request-to-implement, and request-to-ship is something else

nico: Voting on intent to ship makes more sense, because it's easier to evaluate. I definitely am in favor of some process like this, because there is a barrier to contributing. To actually land pull requests you need a maintainer to approve it. I have had the experience of implementing stuff and it was like, "We aren't going to merge this." That's a bit of a flaw in the system. People who come to Servo and want to implement a big feature, someone unfamiliar with the project can find out.

martin: different ways people interact with open source software projects, there's an unspoken assumption than before posting a big feature you spend some time fixing bugs and talking to people and getting some trust; but there are a lot of people that don't engage in that fashion

nico: I think that Servo has an additional problem that a lot of software projects have where the ownership and maintainer ship is not that clear. We have this committee that have one or two maintainers that can unilaterally make decisions. In those kind of projects it's easier to get a yes or a no and things get stuck.

martin: this is a common thing in browsers, people might not be familiar with how it works there; even if myself implement a big feature in WebKit and put a patch in bugzilla, nobody will look at it, and won't be merged; unless somehow I do the work to get trust and talk to people about the work and so on

nico: I think we could maybe do a better job of communicating this to people aren't coming from a background of working on large projects like browsers. They are coming from GitHub open source projects with 5k-10k lines of code. I think if we could write up expectations that'd be good.

rego: I understand martin will do a proposal in the issue and mention it in Zulip. We can continue discussion in Zulip about it. About the fuzzing and panics, we can also have that discussion. We can continue that in the next call.

rego: Thanks everyone for joining.

