# Servo TSC Meeting May 2025

* Date: Monday 26th May 2025 at 15:00 UTC
* Location: https://meet.jit.si/Servo-TSC
* Agenda: https://github.com/servo/project/issues/148

## Agenda

* Status update
* Governance
  * [TSC limits](https://servo.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/500774-tsc/topic/TSC.20limits/with/514852066)
  * [Release managers and administrators](https://servo.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/500774-tsc/topic/Servo.20Release.20Managers.20and.20Administrators/with/515242417)
* Outreach
  * [Web Engines Hackfest](https://webengineshackfest.org/)
* AOB

## Notes

Attending:
* TSC members: atbrakhi, emilio, Loirooriol, mrego, mrobinson, nicoburns, wusyong
* Other: shane, ststimac

### Status update

rego: Several improvements on DOM APIs, new work on Vello background for Canvas, work on rendering SVG images, improvements for the WebDriver. More work on the TrustedTypes implementation. URLPattern improvements. Streams API work. WebView API now allows for JavaScript execution and we have unit tests. Devtools improvements (source panel). Incremental layout improvements happening incrementally.

rego: We have surpassed 1.6 million subtests passing in WPT

rego: Outreachy contribution period over and we have 2 interns working on Servo.

rego: https://www.outreachy.org/alums/2025-06/#:~:text=Servo

rego: One of these interns sponsored by Servo OpenCollective money from donations.

### Governance

#### [TSC limits](https://servo.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/500774-tsc/topic/TSC.20limits/with/514852066)

rego: https://hackmd.io/nOnd95iKQJqeUhjGZ7EeuQ

rego: Idea to limit TSC involvement per organization. There was the question about how to disclose contracting in some cases. Complicated because of contracting. We didn't reach any agreement. Discussion today or try to ping the thread on Zulip and work there?

martin: maybe due to the limited number of people in this meeting, and a bunch from Igalia we should move to zulip for the discussion

nico: I also had missed that there was a new TSC channel in Zulip.

rego: We can announce the channel in general again.

#### [Release managers and administrators](https://servo.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/500774-tsc/topic/Servo.20Release.20Managers.20and.20Administrators/with/515242417)

rego: We can probably do the same for this discussion.

martin: maybe we could invite or add the TSC members to the channel

### Mozjs update

rego: We need to do a new release of mozjs.

### Outreach

rego: https://www.youtube.com/live/84bX1nPDBr4?si=Y7VXJeHtDP3tjie5&t=33761

rego: Some folks attended rustweek. Josh gave a lightning talk (link above).

nico: In addition to Josh's talk at rustweek that included a browser day with discussion around the miniapps specification (didn't get very far). Seems like that is no longer progressing on at the standards level. We have a good discussion about SVG with Servo people and linebender people. Potential plan to evolve resvg to be suitable for in-page SVG.

nico: Need to coordinate with folks working on SVG in Servo.

rego: Web Engines Hackfest coming next week.

rego: https://webengineshackfest.org/

rego: There will be breakout session about directly about Servo and another one about that is a hackathon to integration fontations into various Â browser engines (including Servo).

rego: https://github.com/Igalia/webengineshackfest/issues/57

rego: https://github.com/Igalia/webengineshackfest/issues/46

### AOB

rego: No topics.

