# Servo TSC Meeting December 2024

*  Date: [Monday 16th December 2024 at 16:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Servo%20TSC%20Meeting%20December%202024%20(2024-12-16)&iso=20241216T1600)
* Location: https://meet.jit.si/Servo-TSC
* Agenda: https://github.com/servo/project/issues/116

## Agenda

* Status update
* Elections
* Servo Contributors Process
* Roadmap Updates
* Outreach
* ReadableStream
* Update the rendering progress
* Embedding meeting
* Mini-apps
* AOB

## Notes

Attending:
* TSC members: gterzian, jschwe, Loirooriol, mrego, mrobinson, nicoburns, wusyong
* Other: matlu

### Status update

rego: Starting with status update. We published the monthly blog post last week. Most of the things are there. Work on different areas.

rego: grid behind a flag, shadow dom progressing, web crypto moving forward

rego: improvement on performance, particular layout & flexbox, much faster now

rego: binary size, some flags landed to make builds smaller on production

rego: that's the high level summary

### Elections

rego: the charter mentions that every year we renew the chair and secretary. Right now myself (Rego) I'm the chair and Martin is the secretary

rego: if there are no volunteers and everybody is fine with continuing

rego: we will go with the same setup for next year

### Servo Contributors Process

rego: https://github.com/servo/project/tree/main/governance#readme

rego: PR charter: https://github.com/servo/project/pull/118

rego: this has all the information, and we have a PR to update the charter. But after a couple of pings I still didn't get an update from them about moving forward

rego: no updates regarding that

### Roadmap Updates

rego: we got a new proposal

rego: I can't find it now

rego: maybe I dreamed it

rego: It was on the original plan that was discussed last time. I though we got another one but I can't find it

nico: I can't see it either

rego: there is "Topic: Using JSI to provide a common interface to an abstract JavaScript engine" but I can't find it

rego: if people have things they want to add, post a comment to the issue

### Outreach

rego: talks by Jonathan and Gregory were published

rego: any news about FOSDEM? I haven't heard about that

### ReadableStream

gregory: a couple updates. We are replacing the old deprecated readablestream implementation

greogory: we will do writablestream and others but first we did readablestream since it used deprecated things. Probably it will land in a couple days

### Update the rendering progress

gregory: we made progress in the HTML event loop, with Martin. About how script an layout interact. Moving fordward. Thanks Martin

### Embedding meeting

gregory: the other part. Personally I wanted to know what's going on with the embedding of Servo. Organized a meeting with people working on the embedding projects. Anybody interested can join join.

### Mini-apps

gregory: There is a project about miniapps. Things could implement that as a prototype in Servo. New APIs that we may have to implement, like ServiceWorker, and related to embedding

gregory: that's it on my side

rego: We already included something about readablestream on the roadmap. But if you want to include streams in general that can be included

### AOB

jonathan: I can't find the JS anymore but I thing it was one of my colleagues that added it

rego: Mats is asking about Outreachy. Only 1 candidate this time. Maybe Martin can update us about status

martin: The intern for this session is Ashwin, they are working on the dialogs for the embedding API, and they are starting with the file selection dialog, just started this week

gregory: What Jonathan said about JS API, readableStream is part of that

gregory: some details on the roadmap

rego: meeting is over now, thanks!

