# Servo TSC Meeting April 2025

* Date: Monday 28th April 2025 at 09:00 UTC
* Location: https://meet.jit.si/Servo-TSC
* Agenda: https://github.com/servo/project/issues/140

## Agenda

* Status update
* AI policy review
* Governance
  * Move discussions to public channels
  * TSC limits
  * Release managers and administrators
* Outreach
  * RustWeek (May 13-17)
* AOB

## Notes

Attending:
* TSC members: atbrakhi, gterzian, jschwe, Loirooriol, mrego, mrobinson, mukilan,  nicoburns, Taym95, wusyong
* Other: vic

### Status update

rego: Lots of progress on feature implementation and WPT passes.

rego: https://servo.org/wpt/

rego: Enabling more tests can show jumps that didn't exist in the past.

rego: Work on clipboard API, trusted types, displaying text selection, caret. Improvements on CSS, etc.

rego: Released stylo crate at beginning of April, devtools improvements (sources panel), WebView API improvements, incremental layout improvements, removed legacy layout.

### AI policy review

rego: This point predates public discussion on this. TSC has decided to move discussion to public on GitHub. After feedback there and via social media accounts, the TSC decided to keep the current AI policy as is. No changes. Future changes will be done first by discussing in public forums for earlier feedback. Can close this discussion now.

rego: https://github.com/servo/servo/discussions/36379

### Governance

#### Move discussions to public channels

rego: After AI discussion, some internal TSC discussion about making discussions in public. Consider more complex setups at some point. Few people who commented via the TSC, most people agree. If people are fine we could make initial discussion public on Zulip.

martin: I don't oppose moving discussions into the public, but I do wonder if it would have prevent the AI case, as in addition to public discussion the other thing is actually publicizing those discussions, probably a discussion on a zulip channel won't pay attention as it's a smaller group of people

martin: how this would prevent things without posting about every topic in social media

yu wei: We can probably just focus on Zulip for now. Greg mentioned this topic for a long time, so length of time will allow public to have exposure to upcoming topics. People would still oppose, but healthier because people can participate and talk about values and conflicts. Still worth it for a lot of policies and topics we bring to topic. For TSC we shouldn't just determine the outcome, we should get input from community find the best way to resolve the outcome.

nico: Even if people don't see something ahead of time. In case of AI, if we had the discussion public on Zulip, people wouldn't have thought TSC did something wrong, not that I think the we did something wrong. I do think it is wrong to have these discussion in private. Legitimate thing to complain about.

nico: For this kind of controversial topic, good idea to publicize on social meeting. We can do better job of publicizing Zulip and also these meetings. Main Servo repository could have a link to Zulip and project repository and say that is how you get involved in Servo development.

rego: Regarding Martin's question. If discussions are public and we can refer to them, we can avoid misunderstanding. If everything is on a public Zulip thread, then people will have all the context. We alternated between public and private discussions. At least that will improve if most of discussion is in public.

rego: What we can do regarding special topics, if someone identifies that topic is tricky we can announce it more publicly (blog post, social media, etc). We have tools to do that when there is the need.

rego: Sometimes we need to do votes and reach consensus in TSC. People asked about whether this should be public. Complex discussions. TSC acts as one group. Not sure if we need to expose votes. Also have issues about maintainers, etc. These conversations could harm relationships, so some conversations need to happen privately. Not sure if all voting needs to be public.

nico: I would propose that votes happen in public channels as well. It's good to have a record. If it is on something controversial, provides accountability to TSC. If we decide something that people don't like then they'll know why and who. For us who are in positions of power to have that kind of accountability.

nico: Practically, the Zulip polls list individual names, so poll in public, we could just count names of TSC members.

rego: Sounds like people agree to make things public.

#### TSC limits

rego: https://hackmd.io/@rego/servo-tsc-limit/

rego: Main reasons to keep project independent and consensus decision. Proposal to set maximum size of 20 people. Not having a single organization controlling the TSC. Right now 6 from Igalia, but only 5 from Igalia would be valid. Making sure we'd limit TSC directly.

rego: No more than one third of members from one organization.

martin: I agree with this idea, it might need a little tweaking, I think it'd be good also taking into account people who are not directly affiliated, but have some commercial association, even if that cannot be made public for contractual reasons; I don't think Igalia should be able to pay 10 people that work independently and take over the TSC, so we should take that into account

rego: for people working as individual contractors, would people be fine revealing their association, even if just privately

yu wei: I think I agree with that. Revealing affiliation of members. Regarding AI policy discussion, some people commented that they wanted to eliminate donation because it was related to AI. In east asia we know that futurewei invests a lot in Servo, perhaps from huawei. Those funding from Servo doesn't directly come from these members.

rego: One issue is that many times, commercial relationships have NDAs. May prevent event disclosing privately. We will need to move forward with having unafiliated people on the TSC. We cannot force people to break contracts.

jonathan: I think in general I also support this proposal. If you really want to get around it, you could make some kind of foundation. We invite people to TSC and assume they are trustworthy. The only reasonable way is to ask people to self-report depending on whether they are representing their client / company or an independent decision maker voting their own conscience. I think we do have people here who we don't even know their real name. Do we want to require people to give their real name? Everything else seems fine to me.

rego: I agree with Jonathan that we rely on people to judge their own cooperation. I also feel like we cannot force it.

nico: I don't have an awful lot to say, but I'm broadly in support. I think it is tricky with independent contractors, because whether or not you are beholden to your client. Maybe makes sense for people to make relationship public when people think it is a good idea.
Question: Only 10 people in meeting. The whole TSC is 17 people. If we are talking about 1/3 of the people, how does that apply if number of attendees is lower? Based on size of TSC or meeting?

rego: In charter specified that async voting is preferred. TSC meetings has 50% quorum requirements. Decisions made by majority of people present. Async voting is called out in the charter as it allows entire TSC to vote.

rego: https://github.com/servo/project/blob/main/governance/CHARTER.md#3--tsc-voting

gregory: confirms

jonathan: Proposal mentions that 1/3 of people voting is kept by attendance. Live votes are proportional to attendance?

rego: Yes, for in-meeting votes. For async votes no.

#### Release managers and administrators

rego: https://hackmd.io/@rego/servo-release-managers-administrators/

rego: New requirements for release managers and administrators. Initial text follow policy for maintainers and TSC members. Are people okay with this?

rego: Will have more discussion on Zulip and will tweak the final wording.

nico: Still not doing releases regularly enough. WebRender only released in 2020.

nico: Crates like html5ever. Use published version internally, but often still a bit of a delay. Someone published a small change and it took a few days to publish. I often wait a few days or a couple week for that.

nico: Some Mozilla maintainers, we need to be careful about removing their publishing rights. Need to sure they still have right to release those.

nico: I think we need to have people that are more proactive in releasing crates or move to a model a couple of TSCs ago where there are individual areas or domains where they have rights to publish those crates.

nico: my aim is to get crates released faster and that people driving that. I feel like I'm just bugging people. I feel like I'm causing interpersonal conflict and it's still not fast enough.

martin: is good to releases crates frequently, a couple of days is very good for releases, to check things are good and avoid doing mistakes; I agree it shouldn't be a couple of weeks, but it hasn't been like that lately (the stylo one was slow because it was the first time, but now is a couple of days, and it's one complex because it has many other crates), I think a couple of day sis not a problem

jonathan: I was just wondering how many manual testing is needed. What I want to suggest is trying to increase automation. Martin previously raised security concerns. If two or more maintainers can approve release, then CI can do the release. In practice, is there a lot of crates that need manual testing?

nico: One thing I've noticed is that relatively regularly is that there are fixes that block release such as metadata fixes. Generally model that people use is that people publish and then post PR. My concern with automated releases is that we will hit these issues. Harder to fix at a distance. When it doesn't break, it could be good.

rego: Previous comment about repositories, the proposal includes having special groups for these for crates such as `rust-url. About other part is the solution is the number of maintainers. For instance in case of WebRender, not sure how that will help. Maybe more than number of people in group is less important than people working on making releases.

martin: to go back to the idea of automatic relases, I don't have any problem with that, as long as the CI needs release managers to give thumbs-up, which is faster than doing the relases; that seems fine to me

nico: Couple of topics here. In terms of WebRender. No good reason that it took 11 months to release Stylo. Make release 6 months ago people were happy about, but proved it was technically possible.

nico: i'm not willing to drive release of those crates. I just want permission to press button myself or some kind of commitment to have a team around that.
If it is the case that a release only takes a few days,  then that's fine, but I'm still waiting to see if that happens. If that is the case now, then why didn't that happen a year ago?

rego: Still don't see how increasing the limit can improve situation.

nico: I'm proposing raising limit to 6 from 5 so I can be on it otherwise we have to kick someone out. People have raised issue of trust and supply chain issues. Not sure what we are solving there. Obviously, people have their own opinions about that. I can do some of the legwork of doing that. Everyone wins.

rego: In this case, I didn't put names. Who will be those 5 or 6 people we can discuss later on. It seems like the proposal is good, but the specific people is still an open question. Trust takes a while, so we can see who is there. I wanted to understand if there was some other open question.

jonathan: Given organization limits, maybe it makes sense here. Maybe 30% is too low, but maybe it shouldn't be 100% from one organization.

rego: Good idea. For instance, not having 5 release managers from same organization.

### Outreachrego

#### RustWeek (May 13-17)

rego: Bunch of folks attending rust week in a few weeks.

rego: Folks can comment on Zulip or react to organize themselves.

rego: Taym and Jonathan will be joining the event.

nico: I will also be at RustWeek.

### AOB

rego: No other topics, so meeting finished.

