# Servo Technical Steering Committee Meeting

Date: 2021-10-08
Location: Zoom

attending: asajeffrey,  jdm, cybai, simonsapin, avadacatavra

## Agenda

* Approve 2021-06 meeting minutes

approved.

* Servo infrastructure

- jdm: all travis CI stopped working, repositories need to be converted to GitHub or stop relying on homu.
- jdm: deploying homu updates is annoying; saltfs is based on travis, keeps requiring updating to newer versions.
- discussion of whether moving to bars.tech instead of self-hosted homu would allow turning off EC2 instance
- jdm: EC2 instance runs homu and upstream WPT webhook
- jdm: salt stack management is painful
- jdm: process of converting repos from travis to GitHub actions requires homu deploy, additional annoyance in current setup
- ajeffrey: should we throw money at it?
- jdm: no. continue with current course of converting repos as needed based on activity.

* Process for adding new projects

- ajeffrey: consensus around adding new projects under the servo umbrella? what kinds of projects make sense to accept?
- avadacatavra: litmus test: is the project directly related to or used by servo? Do we have a plan for maintaining the project?
- jdm & simonsapin: agreed.
- jdm: don’t want to be home for orphaned and unloved projects that servo does not actually rely upon in any way.

* TSC elections

- jdm: what are duties of chair?
- ajeffrey: duties of the TSC chair: chairing TSC meetings, acting as representative of TSC to the board in meetings.
- ajeffrey: we should put out a call on the zulip for anyone who would like to join the TSC.
- ajeffrey: submit any nominations for individuals to the private TSC zulip channel. Any objections to a nomination will be noted.
- ajeffrey: next scheduled meeting is December. Do we want to have an election meeting ahead of them?
- simonsapin: do we need a chair earlier than than?
- ajeffrey: theoretically, yes. Practically, no.
- jdm: don’t see a good reason for an extra meeting.
- everyone: general agreement.

* Any Other Business

- jdm: how to give out reviewer privileges easier? What about proposing new reviewers to TSC in zulip, automatically accepted in 7 days unless any objections.
- simonsapin: should we tell them to review/merge other people’s code but not their own?
- jdm: not super concerned about that; I often end up merging my own PRs.
- ajeffrey: what about suggesting waiting for review but after period of no response go ahead?
- jdm: seems like a good rule of thumb.
