# Servo TSC Meeting February 2026

* Date: [Monday 23rd Feb 2026 at 10:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Servo%20TSC%20Meeting%20February%202026%20(2026-02-23)&iso=20260223T1000)
* Location: https://meet.jit.si/Servo-TSC
* Agenda: https://github.com/servo/project/issues/216

## Agenda

* Status update
* Outreach
* Roadmap update/New features
* Funding for architectural review work
* AOB

## Notes

Attending:
* TSC members: atbrakhi, delan, jschwe, Loirooriol, mrego, mrobinson, mukilan, Taym95
* Other: simonwuelker, yezhizhen

### Status update

rego: In the last month there has been a lot of progress. Hard to summarize. We will make a blog post soon hopefully with a summary.

rego: More work on WebDriver. All WPT tests are running with WebDriver like the other web engines. It shows that WebDriver is in a good status now.

rego: Improvements to devtools: Close to getting breakpoints working. Other improvements.

rego: Many different improvements on DOM API and layout stuff. IndexedDB making progress. We have a new servo configuration page which can be used to enable and disable settings similar to what Firefox has (`servo:config`).

rego: Work now on Largest Contentful Paint and other paint metrics.

### Outreach

rego: A few of us were at FOSDEM. There were a couple  Servo talks there. One by Taym about streams implementation and one by about the general Servo project. Both videos uploaded. People can watch them.

rego: https://servo.org/about/

rego: RustNL week is also coming up in the Netherlands. A few people will be attending.

rego: https://2026.rustweek.org/

### Roadmap updates/New features

rego: https://github.com/servo/servo/wiki/Roadmap

rego: https://github.com/servo/project/issues/114

rego: There were some discussions at FOSDEM about this. We haven't been updating the roadmap for a while, even when we have issues open to propose things for the roadmap. Not a lot of updates on it recently.

rego: Last time we updated was September. Maybe we want to review and update the roadmap in the next weeks/days. Remove completed things and add new things that people are working on.

rego: The other discussion we had was a set of potential tasks and ideas that would be good to work on, but we don't have time right now. Things we are looking for help on.

rego: Maybe different from roadmap updates, but reviewed by TSC and identified as acceptable tasks for contributors. For contributors, sometimes just pick their own tasks. Have an initial list of tasks. Review the list in the TSC and approve it.

martin: it wouldn't be just a list of tasks, also a list of features we're willing to add support and maintain in the future; and other newer more experimental features might need some kind of justification about what's the plan to finish the task, and the future maintenance
martin: kind of similar to the inte-to-implement system in other browser engines, but more casual

rego: List of "approved" things. Small tasks and bigger features. How to deal with other features "out of scope" would be adding them to issue with ideas for the future. Decide if it's something that we really want with the project.

martin: if someone wants to add support for a more experimental feature, but the TSC doesn't want to maintain it

martin: maybe if the people explain the plan, and how they plan to maintain it, the TSC could still be fine with thouse

rego: We can announce this and and start collecting ideas.

martin: would also make sense at the top of the roadmap to put a little bit of text about the alternative approach to propose new features and all that

rego: We need to document this a bit and make it easier to find for people.

mukilan: Could it be in the book?

rego: Yeah, book or project page sounds good.

euclid: We are discussing about policy to add new features. Right now people just open a PR and people review it.

rego: Right now we don't have any kind of policy for new features. Depends on the new features are proposing, maybe people would be fine.

rego: This would be about something bigger, experimental, more controversial.

euclid: Are there already some counter examples of this?

martin: a good example of something like this, even when this is already done, if someone wants to come and implement support for WebBluetooth, as it's not something that a lot of pages use; it'd be nice that the people proposing it, is what is the plan to complete the task, and the maintain it going forward; right now WebBluetooth is kind of abandoned on the tree

martin: maybe we want to put things on the plan, like everything on CSS2 or CSS3 is fine, but things used by very little pages would be fine

martin: another example could be IndexedDB, we're lucky because people are still working on it and are improving it, but if people left it as is, it's not in a good situation

martin: the idea would be to avoid people who mean well, but provide a large patch and then leave the project

jonathan: I guess it would make sense to also apply this wording not just to features, but also to platform support. Last year someone wanted to added Linux to Arm64 to Linux. Was postponed due to TSC discussion, but didn't really advance. Arm64 is kind of trivial, since most similar to Linux, but consider redoxos (someone working on that out of tree). If someone wanted to upstream that we might want guarantees to maintain that going forward.

rego: Next step starting to document this. Some discussion on Zulip about final wording. Getting this list of thing somehow crafted. Figure out how to propose new ideas there.

Nico Burns: Perhaps it might be a good idea to add "tracking issues" to all of the roadmap items (at least the ones that are code related). That would allow people to follow along with progress (work completed, work in flight, work planned). And where there is "help wanted" we could also use those tracking issues to advertise and coordinate that.Nico Burns: The roadmap items in the "script" category already seem to have this. And I've just added the link the the CSS Grid tracking issue to the CSS Grid roadmap item.

### Funding for architectural review work

rego: https://github.com/servo/project/issues/206

rego: Preference is to reduce a bit the number of hours so that we don't spend more money than we are receiving so far. That was the general opinion on the TSC discussion. We can get this approved with that reduction.

rego: There were a few things discussed on the TSC public roadmap about having a trial period of 3 months for these kind of contracts.

rego: https://github.com/servo/project/blob/main/FUNDING_REQUEST.md#funding-timelines

rego: In three months, we'll review the situation of funding and donations and maybe increase it to the 18 hours requested.

rego: We will approve 12 hours to match the available donations.

### AOB

#### MSRV bump

jonathan: Want to bring up because discussed in the MSRV bump branch. Basically there's a bit of a subpar situation in the rust ecosystem where if you have the 0.x crate that you depend on and an MSRV, if the crate you depend on a CVE, and then the fix is released you have a bit of an issue.

jonathan: Maybe they want to backport the fix, but the patch version is already used for bumping the MSRV on crates.io. There's no great solution. One of the more practical suggestions was that maintainer bumps the version by a thousand when bumping MSRV. The other solution is to increase the version number by 4 or 5. That leaves us in a weird situation where if we want the MSRV policy, it conflicts with other goals such as releasing to crates.io. Either we need to bump MSRV to get latest security patches otherwise we would need to backport and fork. Also obviously not great. Want to put this up to a discussion. Is there a consideration on depending on many 0.x crates?

martin: I guess this is why most browser engines don't want to have a lot of dependencies, and they vendor their dependencies; as time goes by I think we need to reduce our number of dependencies
martin: it seems we depend on the hundreds of dependencies to work in an ideal way; I think it's the direction to go on, with the caveat it doesn't fix the problem right now

jonathan: I generally agree, but I think it is easy to agree that we want to, but it's just very hard to do. A lot of dependencies that are hard are ones that we kind of want like serde or wgpu. You look at each of them and get all of their transitive dependencies and you get a huge amount.

jonathan: How much can we really reduce them?

martin: I wonder if there's a way to do some analysis of our dependencies to see which ones we can trim more easily, like things we have a lot of things hanging off of them

martin: I agree things like WebGPU is going to be very difficult

Nico Burns: Unfortunately it's probably going to be almost impossible to eliminate "pseudo stdlib" dependencies like time (which is the one causing the issue in this case). Mozilla's approach of vendoring all Rust crates (which I believe has a mechanism for local patches) might be worth looking at. It would require a large investment in tooling though.

#### Release artifact with dependencies

jonathan: Maybe another topic. I've been recently working on adding a release artifact that includes tarball with all source code and dependency source code. Works well on Linux, but not necessarily on Windows and macOS as it doesn't include everything that is included by mach bootstrap. Would other people be interested in this? Windows and macOS are also important? Would people think it's acceptable to say Linux is working, but have additional setup requirements for Windows and macOS?

martin: ok

