# Servo TSC Meeting June 2025

* Date: [Monday 30th Jun 2025 at 09:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Servo%20TSC%20Meeting%20June%202025%20(2025-06-30)&iso=20250630T0900)
* Location: https://meet.jit.si/Servo-TSC
* Agenda: https://github.com/servo/project/issues/151

## Agenda

* Status update
* [Roadmap updates](https://github.com/servo/project/issues/114)
* Self-hosted server for running benchmarks in CI
* Syncing html5ever and servo
* Outreach
  * TPAC 2025
* AOB

## Notes

Attending:
* TSC members: atbrakhi, emilio, jschwe, Loirooriol, mrego, mrobinson, mukilan, nicoburns, wusyong
* Other: matlu, simonwuelker

### Status update

rego: Many changes. Due to all the work we are taking a while to publish blog post.
WebDriver work
Initial SVG support (image tag, CSS, backgrounds). No inline SVG support.
Lot of work on incremental layout.
Streams, Canvas, DevTools, ImageBitmap, TrustedTypes, IndexedDB
Encoding tests improvements we now pass more than 1.7 million WPT tests. 100,000 test improvement.
Lots of other things.

### Roadmap updates

rego: https://github.com/servo/project/issues/114#issuecomment-2957674973

rego: Yu Wei proposed adding a new roadmap entry.

yu wei: New topic about improving rendering stack in Servo. My current focus is adding WebGPU support. Nico proposed using Vello. Huawei has proposed using their own rendering stack. In the second half of the year it would be nice to add alternative rendering stack to the roadmap. If that can happen, I will shift my main focus.

yu wei: My current progress is that we can kind of do the translation from GLSL to SPIRV. It could work if we spend enough time on it.

nico: If you want to work on it, I don't see any reason why it shouldn't be on the roadmap.

### Self-hosted server for running benchmarks in CI

jonathan: I wanted to propose this. Currently benchmarks run on GitHub Actions runners. Shared with other people...not the best to get reliable numbers. Okay for big regressions. Dedicated machines would be useful for getting better numbers that allow us to see smaller regressions. Sometimes we need to merge correctness fixes, but it would be good to know in advance. It would be good to have these numbers so that we can add a label and have people run benchmarks so that they are aware of the regression they are introducing.

jonathan: It would be good to have an x86 machine for reliable numbers.

emilio: I think the Rust project does something similar with their benchmarks. If you have a PR that might affect the performance of their compiler. There has to be a way to trigger that job in the relevant infrastructure. There's also the chance that something that doesn't seem performance relevant can cause a regression. You need some approach for handling that. The usual one is that there is a bot that automatically files issues when detecting a regression. Having more reliable hardware when running performance tests is also a good idea.

nico: How long does it take to run our benchmark suite currently? In terms of getting hardware, that makes sense. We discussed in the WEH that we still have money to spend on things. Is Delan working on CI setup?

jonathan: Don't have exact time. For Speedometer it's only 5 minutes. Having it in the merge queue seems okay. Having a bottleneck of one machine seems okay -- as long as it's just running and not building at the same time.

jonathan: Regarding what rustc project does. I'm not sure if the bot adds a label or if the process is more involved. It would be nice to prevent regressions from being merged if you can. Maybe the bot adds a label and you need to add a new label to override it.

jonathan: There will be cases where we can't catch it before merging.

nico: If it's only 5 minutes, then it seems we can run that on every PR, or at least when merged into main. Building the release version is going to be a significant amount of time to run the benchmark. If we can reuse the existing parts of CI and only run the actual benchmarks on the server, it would help to free up resources on the machine.

jonathan: That's what I had in mind. We do something similar for OHOS. We just download the prebuilt artifact on the benchmark machine.

rego: in the few days/weeks, jonathan can coordinate with delan and mukilan.

### Syncing html5ever and servo

rego: [#general > Syncing html5ever and servo](https://servo.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/263398-general/topic/Syncing.20html5ever.20and.20servo/with/525927228)

simon: we want to keep html5ever and servo in sync so we can get test coverage in WPT. That's why we release a new version for every change. We release too many versions. Release is too difficult. I often make a mistake. It would be nice to have some kind of dedicated process for this. In addition, nico also released a PR to keep all versions in sync, but we still need an approach for having to not release a new version of html5ever.

nico: When simon initially raised this, I thought "we should just keep releasing a new version everytime," but then there were two versions in two days. That's too much. I'm not in favor of using a git dependency in Servo. When we make a release then we can use a published version. I propose that we sync all version numbers of all html5ever crates. It's simpler for us to release: bump version number and release all crates. We have had issues with getting that right in the past when they aren't in sync.

nico: From users side, it's simpler if version numbers are all the same. The process for upgrading html5ever is that you have to figure out what the right version numbers for each package are. Easier to make them all the same for each.

simon: I think the main concern with that approach is that we might forget to release a new version. Maybe a guideline like releasing once a month if there have been any changes.

martin: I'm in favor of syncing all the version numbers, I agree it makes easier for users and for us

martin: for more of our crates where we don't do this it makes sense even

nico: We are already doing this for stylo crates. Works quite well. There are a couple that are useful by themselves. When a crate doesn't get released very frequently, it does makes sense to keep it separate. Sounds like there's agreement on that. I also agree that we keep to doing regular crates.io releases. I'm not too worried about that. Maybe it's just a question of putting up a PR.

martin: we don't have a common practice for how we signal which kind of version number changes have to happen, sometimes people notice in a PR this is a major version bump because it breaks compatibility; it'd be nice to have a standarized way and remember it, so it's obvious for everyone in the process

nico: I have a suggestion that we use github labels for this. We could have labels for semver minor semver patch. If there's multiple crates in a repository, then if the version numbers are synced, then that's not a problem.

jonathan: I just want to say as a user, I would still want to have a changelog that says which crate has the breaking change.

nico: My idea is that the label was on the pull request. Whoever makes the release, which should have changelog, would be able to go..."this one has a breaking change, need to pay more attention and make sure it gets documented."

### Outreach

rego: A bunch of Servo folks at WEH. Lots of discussions there. Hacking. Collaboration with people from Google and Mozilla. Starting to use fontations in Servo. Positive.

#### TPAC 2025

rego: Still quite far away, but yu wei suggested that maybe we could organize around TPAC which will take place in 10-14th of November in Kobe, Japan.

yu wei: sideshowbarker mentioned that some w3c features overlap with miniapp features.

yu wei: We tried to collaborate, but we never were able to kickstart things. We didn't really make much progress on this kind of direction. TPAC is a good place to gather people working on webapp manifest and miniapp manifest.

yu wei: Maybe we can move these kinds of features forward.

rego: For W3C members, but even if you aren't, talk to sideshowbarker and he can invite you. Open to Servo community members one way or another.

### AOB

rego: no more topics, so this is over, thank you everyone

