# Servo TSC Meeting February 2025

* Date: [Monday 31th March 2025 at 15:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Servo%20TSC%20Meeting%20March%202025%20(2025-03-31)&iso=20250331T1500)
* Location: https://meet.jit.si/Servo-TSC
* Agenda: https://github.com/servo/project/issues/132

## Agenda

* Status update
* [Roadmap updates](https://github.com/servo/project/issues/114#issuecomment-2681588663)
* [Proposal: Create a "Stylo maintainers" team](https://github.com/servo/project/issues/137)
* AI policy
  * Sign up for Copilot Fine-tuning
* Add license for WHATWG specs incorporated into source code
* Discussion about what platforms to support on CI and nightly releases
* Governance
* Outreach
* AOB

## Notes

Attending:
* TSC members: delan, emilio, gterzian, Loirooriol, mrego, mrobinson, nicoburns, Taym95, wusyong
* Other: matlu, Shark

### Status update

rego:

- Lots of improvements to WebView API (still in progress)
- Various improvements to the script crate (ReadableStream, etc)
- Enabled shadow DOM by default
- Implemented declarative shadow DOM (many more pages render)
- More CSS improvements( will-change, basic CSS transforms, fit-content, etc),
- Removed legacy layout
- Lots of syncing and upgrade work on stylo, ready to publish now.
- about:memory page
- New --enable-experimental-web-platform-features flag

### [Roadmap updates](https://github.com/servo/project/issues/114#issuecomment-2681588663)

rego: Update on roadmap, due to work on streams?

gregory: We are implementing rest of stream spec. Writeable stream done. I'm working on transfer part, TransferStream taym will do later. Then there is abort signal. Used in spec, so we thought it was a good idea to implement as well. I will update roadmap and add more details if necessary.

rego: Not sure if taym wanted to do some changes there or not.

### [Proposal: Create a "Stylo maintainers" team](https://github.com/servo/project/issues/137)

nico: presents proposal

nico: Idea is to make releases more regularly. For blitz we need regular releases. I feel like I've spent an unbounded amount of time making releases happen. I've been trying to make release happen. I don't have authority to do release. I keep trying to make changes to enable that, but I try to keep prompting people to do it. It's mainly been martin, but I don't think it should be one person's responsibility. The idea is that there would be a dedicated team. Something I didn't put into the proposal, rather than assuming publishing regular stylo releases is something we want, I want to ask if it is something we want? Can we commit to spending time on regular basis.

nico: I thought I would put in time and then other people wouldn't have to put in time.... If we stick with this process, that requires review, then it is going to require one other person.

nico: There are alternatives, which involve forking stylo, which I dismissed as not being a good idea.

nico: Better if there's one crate. Maybe that isn't best.

martin: this proposal is about of making stylo releases to happen regularly

martin: a counter proposal that doesn't require any change, would be that every time we rebase stylo we publish a new release

martin: it still requires someone to review the rebase, but that would happen frequently

martin: not sure if that solves your concerns

nico: I wrote proposal and reflected on what I actually. I'm a little concerned that we agree to do it.

nico: It still ends up being a slow and unresponsive process.

nico: Having said that, I think that the initial release had a lot of friction. Kinda scary. Publishing version bumps should be easier.

martin: I think you did a lot of work to help with the first release, we appreciate that work, and I agree subsequent bumps are going to be a lot easier

martin: if you're ok we can do this as part of our normal operation, as part of the reviews we do for rebases

martin: the proposal doesn't says what we do for minor releases within a cycle, but that shouldn't be a lot of work

martin: another possibility would be to integrate with CI

martin: the thing that I'd like to avoid is to publish it without the review process

nico: Original release done without review, can see how that doesn't make sense. If Servo is willing to publish regularly, I would definitely like to try that. I do think there will probably be some level of need for patch release. I don't think every change will need a release. Lots that can wait. I suspect it will come up.

nico: Another thing that occurred to me, Martin, one of the points you made is that we've intentionally set things so that there is a small team that can publish things. It's in an odd state, where the team isn't that small. Maybe the members should be reviewed.

rego: About that, it's a thing we have pending since we have discussed new roles in the project (now documented). Talked briefly, but next step is to discuss it properly to have a description of release managers. That group has a lot of people no longer involved in the project and define how many release managers we have and define how you can be part of that group, along with repository maintainers. I have plans to share proposals, but haven't had time yet.

rego: Something we need to fix. It's true.

nico: Was thinking of this, although stylo is what I care most about, I feel like this is a problem across the organization. html5ever, etc get regular updates, but there others that don't get updates.

nico: Maybe we can have a more active team across organization and more proactive in doing so.

nico: I want to be part of this team. Lots of code in this project that isn't accessible.

nico: Even if not me, maybe there are members in the team with time and motivation to work on this across Servo.

### AI policy

rego: Have had ongoing discussion. Gregory presented proposal to use GitHub CoPilot. Vote in TSC, showing big division (split evenly). After discussions, we have a consensus proposal.

rego: Couple of changes to AI policy that will happen as PR. Final wording as part of those PRs. That's consensus from TSC. Updates:

1. Allow usage of AI tools that allow making the project inclusive and accessible, but not related to code contributions: translation, text-to-voice, etc.
2. Align with Gregory proposed, for a year testing, Servo maintainers could request to experiment with CoPilot. PRs tagged. CoPilot will only use Servo to reduce copyright. Only used for things like autocomplete, but not for full code generation.

gregory: Nothing to add other than what we've discussed. Quick summary: a year ago we banned AI. I had doubts. We agreed to change our mind in the future. A couple of months ago, I tried it out again while working on the PR in separate branch and found it very useful. It seems you can make it useful with effort on your part. Nothing like a world changing tool, just a kind of a nice autocomplete that can do a bunch of work for me that is kind of a chore. Prevent copy paste, etc.

gregory: Not controversial, just another tool. Asked for permissions to use those commits. I provided information about my experience and why I found it useful. Had some votes and it wasn't completely clear.

gregory: Not sure where we are now. There are others that have strong concerns. Makes sense to allow for experimentation. I sympathize with the ethical concerns. Anything involving big tech company has ethical concerns. Doesn't warrant a ban.

gregory: The way that I like to use it has nothing to do with maintainer burden. Helps to write boilerplate code.

gregory: Can we reconsider the ban? Other people can't use something.

gregory: Not talking about removing it, just talking about an exception.

rego: About removing the ban, I don't think we should go into the discussion. The plan now is that with these two proposals, check that the TSC is in agreement. Still a few people not in agreement, but we need to find consensus. This exception for a year, learn from it and then discussion again. Don't want to start the discussion about the ban again.

delan: I responded to the two most recent proposal in the TSC channel. I'm responding here as well, same extent. I think it should be on the record (not everyone can see TSC channel). I voted no to both proposals. Some of the reasons I gave, Gregory addressed. For those who haven't seen them. With the first proposal, I don't feel comfortable voting yes because it is too vaguely worded. It gives examples of translation tools, but in a non-binding way. Proposal is "allow some AI tools to make project more accessible". Rego has clarified that it excludes code contributions, still way too broad. Could allow using ChatGPT to proofread or re-write a commit message and I think that's going way too far. If we want to allow machine translation and VTT, we should make a proposal that allows those things and not the general description.

delan: These kind of generative AI tools are no more valid as a11y tools than the fundamentals of having a good open-source project -- strong community, good documentation, better developer tooling; should focus on those instead.

delan: Regarding second proposal, same motivations as original policy, voted no to second proposal. Not fixable, unlike first one. Same copyright and ethical issues. With CoPilot specifically, we are relying on Microsoft and OpenAI to respect copyright, not abuse online infrastructure, not exploit workers, not harm society at large. Not possible with this tool in particular. Not confident that experts can use CoPilot without increasing new bugs in Servo (security critical software, network-facing, web-facing). Using CoPilot and tools like it makes it too easy to solve problems of maintainability by writing more code. If code is unmaintainable, we need better abstractions and documentation. Solving them by throwing more code at it is going to make it unmaintainable for people not using these tools.

delan: I recognize seeing the votes, that they are both going to pass. I think that's a serious mistake. I think these proposals will cause serious harm to our reputation and income in the Servo project.

delan: We should have measured the risk before going ahead with this kind of change. In that case, I think it's important that if these proposals, we should make this clear and be transparent about it. Announce it well in advance of when it goes in affect. I suspect that this is something that our community will have a lot to say about, whether through written feedback or their money, or both.

gregory: Thank you for sharing your views. First point about maintainability: I wrote in chat before, it's the opposite. CoPilot only works when code is well-structured. I think it will improve code. Can do it by hand or with CoPilot. To get it to work well, you have to structure code well and document it. Have to have maintainable code and clear patterns. Counter argument on that point. Other point about reputation: there's no other rust project that I know has a ban in place.

gregory: Don't see how having copilot could harm our reputation.

nico: Not sure if this is high stakes as people are making it out to be. Not going to make much difference. Perhaps we are feeling like we are important, when we aren't so much (the committee). Delan made the point that it might be good to seek feedback from wider rust community before we make a decision. I would be interested in knowing what the rust reddit would think about this. my instinct is that having a policy at all is more likely to be perceived negatively than just not having a policy.

nico: Looked at Ladybird. Their policy is "Can you it if you want, but you have to meet the quality standards of human-written code." I would like a clause about copyright. Can cause big problems that are hard to undo. Code quality and ethical concerns are easier to address than copyright. Where is the push to get this policy removed -- from individual contributors and we exist in climate where the world is gone mad and funding is attached to AI projects ATM. Push for that.

nico: One one hand vote in favor of allowing it, but on the other hand it is questionable if these projects are valuable to Servo. Are they driven by technical feasibility. I'm undecided.

nico: Ladybird policy: https://github.com/LadybirdBrowser/ladybird/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#on-usage-of-ai-and-llms

rego: Just to answer Gregory: one project that has similar policy to Servo.

rego: Gentoo https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Project:Council/AI_policy

rego: TSC decided to put this ban a year ago and we voted on whether to modify it. I don't think we can remove it now.

rego: We can announce it. I guess feedback will be divided.

delan: On subject of other projects: there is also NetBSD project (as of May 2024) have similar ban, not aware of Gentoo or NetBSD changing policy since then.

rego: https://www.netbsd.org/developers/commit-guidelines.html

delan: Also as far as transparency with community, at some point, if these proposals go ahead, good to announce this in the monthly update and on social media, because those avenues generate a lot of our donations, exposure, that this project relies on. Being transparent in those venues as well would be the right thing to do.

gregory: Allowing maintainers is different from mandating community. Even if community is concerned about AI, why ban me from it.

gregory: Not about lifting ban, just about allowing some people to experiment. If unsatisfactory, we can stop using it.

rego: Need to continue discussion in TSC Zulip about next steps. We can discuss if / how to inform public.

### Add license for WHATWG specs incorporated into source code

rego: Going quickly over this one, it seems totally fine, Firefox already does this for example, we just need someone to do a PR with the change.

### Discussion about what platforms to support on CI and nightly releases

martin: there have been requests to add bots for other platforms (mac silicon, or arm)

martin: how would be the procedure to decide about that, what are the benefits of new platforms and any trade offs

delan: I think macOS on Apple Silicon on CI may be a bit tricky to do. Self-hosted runner system is very inexpensive because we use virtual machines for all platforms. macOS part especially tricky.

martin: https://github.com/servo/servo/pull/31234/files

delan: To do it I think we'd have to colocate hardware or find third-party provider.

delan: For Linux on ARM a lot more possible. Lot of ARM-based servers on self-hosted runner framework, not to mention emulation as well.

martin: the change for mac silicon was a cross compilation thing, running in the normal mac workflow; I suppose arm linux is similar

delan: so it'd be ok to run things on the existing runners

martin: that's what I understand, not sure about the utility

delan: maybe that could be a good middle ground, cross-compile to those platforms and spin up a runner to do some smoke tests

nico: Quick points. My experience with Apple Silicon hosted runners is that they are fast that even though they are expensive, they pay off in the end. I think the default runners are apple silicon anyway. Those are definitely available. Switching from GitHub Actions to Apple Silicon runners, I've gotten 5 times faster builds.

nico: Are existing builds pinning to run on Intel GitHub Actions runners?

nico: Looks like existing builds are pinning to the older macos-13 runners: https://github.com/servo/servo/blob/main/.github/workflows/mac.yml#L87C35-L87C43

nico: In which case, it's worth considering that we would likely get a free speed boost for github-hosted builds by switching to the newer macos-14 or macos-15 runners.

nico: And also worth considering that this is the only way to test newer versions of macOS on github-hosted runners.

### AOB

rego: No more time today, so we'll have to skip other topics, please discuss relevant topics on Zulip.

