# Servo TSC Meeting October 2025

* Date: Monday 27th Oct 2025 at 10:00 UTC
* Location: https://meet.jit.si/Servo-TSC
* Agenda: https://github.com/servo/project/issues/185

## Agenda

* AOB

## Notes

Attending:
* TSC members: atbrakhi, emilio, delan, jschwe, mrego, mrobinson, nicoburns

### AOB

rakhi: No many folks here, so maybe we can skip to AOB?

jonathan: I have a couple things I want to talk about.

#### Installation directory

jonathan: Had first release. Installer currently installs to a directory called MozillaResearch. Probably we should change that. Wondering about alternative name.

jonathan: "Servo" might be too generic.

emilio: Any precedence for that, such as "Linux Foundation Europe."

jonathan: Can we use that or do we need to ask them first?

martin: would it be enough to call it servoshell, which is actually the name of the program

jonathan: First an org and then a program name.

delan: Is there any reason why "Servo" wouldn't work? I think we are a large enough project that it seems like it should be okay...

jonathan: I was thinking about that too, but how do we find out if some other organization related to servo motors is already using this path.

martin: we could also just try it and wait for bug report. seems like a low risk

jonathan: Any other topics?

#### 1.0 Requirements

martin: maybe we could chat about 1.0. maybe it make sense to chat about what could 1.0 means

martin: initial thought, stable means you have stable branch. perhaps one way to know that we are ready is maintain a stable branch and it does not require too much crashes or fixes. that stable branch would have more strict requirement. is it useful to use that branch?

jonathan: I agree here that we want a stable branch, and that's something that I would like to start rather soon, because if we continue making these monthly releases we want a better period where we can do testing. You don't catch everything. My idea, already discussed in TSC chat, take last nightly of monthly and use it for pre-release testing. Backport fixes, etc to that branch.

jonathan: When we finish monthly report, we can graduate that branch to be monthly release. We could start that rather soon and see how that goes.

jonathan: Going forward on 1.0 direction. Like other browsers, we increase major release every 4,6,8 weeks but using the same model using addition testing, etc. Having only stable branch as requirement isn't enough. The changes you have between stable versions, probably shouldn't be too large any more. Embedders switching between 1.0 and 2.0 don't have to change too much in their app.

martin: agree with short release cycle. embedders may still have issues if they miss like four release cycles. Not sure if this solves the problem of changes to the API. other engines vary in how they deal with this. Chromium doesn’t expose a stable API. Webkit has guarantees about their API, deprecating for years.

emilio: I think it probably makes sense to not make commitment about API stability for a bit. I don't know the maturity of the embedding servo api, but as new features get implemented and so on there are needs to change the API. My gut says don't make guarantees about a stable API right now.

martin: agree that we shouldn’t make any guarantees about stable API. does it make sense to delay 1.0 until we can make guarantees about stable API? until 2.0 at least.

emilio: Would it make sense to experiment with this model using minor versions instead of major ones?

martin: i think it would be interesting on the path to 1.0. for example, 0.1.0 we don’t break the API. maybe that experience will teach us how much the API will be changing, and this will put us in line with other projects.

nico: External perceptions of the project. Two version numbers that we care about: servo the library and servo the browser. When we make releases we are releasing servo shell and not releases of the library. Maybe we want them to be different and maybe we want them to be the same. API stability is completely irrelevant to a user using a browser.

martin: i would even say that the version of a browser is irrelevant to most users. maybe all that matters is “is it up to date or not”

jonathan: I guess we could experiment with tools like cargo semver-check between releases. It could give us some kind of feeling in practice.

jonathan: I'm not sure if we want to commit to zero breaking changes.

nico: The other thing I'd say is that Servo has an API on crates.io, but it's not stable. What I have been using is the stylo API (not stable, but no guarantees). Hasn't been a problem. I guess my point is that keeping up with breaking changes isn't a problem. Any project using Servo needs to be involved with the project. For the foreseeable future, making the API better is more important than making it stable.

martin: seems like the core decision is do we want to use semver. because if we release 1.0 and the API isn’t stable, we’re not doing semver. i understand that 1.0 is important for marketing reasons, i wonder if it’s more or less important than the semver, and do we want to be a project that doesn’t use semver?

nico: Other thing would be CEF and Chrome Devtools protocol. Not sure if it has version numbers, but there is a stable core and unstable extensions. Kind of like how the Web API is versioned.

nico: I think it would be useful to offer some level of stability.

nico: I guess we need to talk to people using the API. There might be some benefit to us trying to use it. My instinct is that API stability is not going to be blocker. You can skip releases. I feel like missing features are going to be much more of a problem currently.

martin: we could consider ourselves close to 1.0, if we do a lot of work on the API to flesh it out. we’re working on that now, and learning from other embedding APIs. i suspect sometime next year the API will become a lot more stable, with multiple webviews, better interfaces for rendering contexts, cache, etc. i think after that we would not need to change or remove things as much. the question is, do we want to invest the effort in that area

rakhi: I agree with you nico, but we cannot wait until all the features ready. We should not. We should try to release a lot more over a period of time. That way the more features are coming in the more visible as well. Overall marketing perspective is good.

rakhi: i agree, but i think we can’t wait until we have all the features ready. we should try to release early, release often. it makes the project more visible and is better for marketing

nico: I absolutely agree that we should be releasing. Clearly it's gotten a big response.

nico: We have loads of crates that we publish that do not have API stability. Look at projects like react native that are stable now, but not before. Every change was really breaking and really painful.

jonathan: I do generally agree that API stability is something that would be nice. We have to talk about how long of a period it should remain stable. Like half a year or a year? Might not be important right now, because if you are an embedder besides features there is also the security thing. You probably want to stay very close to main. How well tested is Servo right now wrt security issues. Not that many people would be willing to use in production.

jschwe: i generally agree that API stability would be nice, with some discussion of the finer details (stability periods etc). i tentatively agree with nico that it might not be that important right now. projects using servo at this early stage might probably want to stay close to main anyway

rakhi: I agree with you jonathan and nico both, maybe we can back to what martin was saying about releasing more and more until we are confident about 1.0. We can have minor releases, meaning more features and more work until we we are more confident. I was wondering how other folks about it.

nico: Is the suggestion to make 0.1.0 releases etc? If so that makes sense to me.

jonathan: If you want to have releases with semver updates. Monthly releases following that. We'd have to reject PRs that break semver.

emilio: Can't you always do a minor version bump without too much issue right? That would imply that there are breaking changes. Maybe some don't have breaking change, but also not an issue.

martin: i agree. that’s a good next step. minor versions pre-1.0 are a good way to do it, and reflect well the state of the API

nico: I also totally agree. It seems a good way to go. I think that if we are able to get servo onto crates.io and get releases there. My understanding is that we are not too far away now. There was a blocker with mozjs, but it seems solved. I don't think anything is blocking it. Even if it's not the best way to consume Servo, but having it there will signal that it's there and ready to use, kind of like the servoshell release.

jonathan: Yeah, I think that's a good point, but probably we have other things to solve such as just running cargo build is unlikely to work out of the box on other platforms. Python needs to be the correct version, etc. We handle that all in mach right now. One thing that I would make a requirement for 1.0 is having a good packaging story. We'd need to document extra steps somehow. Another requirement is that offline builds work.

nico: What is the current state with building an external project that embeds Servo. I know how to build Servo with mach, but I don't know how to embed Servo in an external project?

jonathan: You can do both if you know what you are doing. I can do it since I know what mach does. What might be easier is if we could add a command to mach to dump environment variables. And for post build scripts, we have some gstreamer things we do on macOS. Maybe just document those?

nico: I think we should care about those platforms, because many developers use them. With Dioxus we have a similar thing. You can use Dioxus with cargo, but we have a couple extra features -- binary repatching and hot loading, bundling into an app package, you cannot use cargo.

nico: I think quite common that bundling requires a separate tool. We might consider a Servo CLI tool that can be installed via cargo install or cargo binstall.

rakhi: I want to chime in and say that they did it using cargo and not mach.

jonathan: I think that Linux is the platform where using cargo works fine mostly. It gets more complicated when doing cross compiling.

jonathan: On macos and windows you need to download gstreamer and some mach things for mozjs.

martin: regarding gstreamer, there’s a change waiting for review that ensures that the crate automatically downloads gstreamer on build. mainly a case of convincing upstream to land it. if we can’t land it, we may want to consider turning off media support, because the current situation makes building servo too complex

nico: For GStreamer would there be a possibility of making it external, so that the media player or decoder could be set during embedding API and then the base servo api doesn't have media playback. One of those could have gstreamer, etc.

martin: i think pluggable media backends would be tricky. there’s some complex coordination needed for things like zero-copy frame handling. i don’t know if it’s impossible, but it’s tricky at least

delan: A bit of an earlier point with setting up the prerequisites for building Servo. I wonder to what extent this could be handled in build.rs. I'm not too familiar with what the build scripts are capable of.

jonathan: That's an interesting point, but the order is also important. The major thing we need Python for right now during the build is codegen.py. There's no reason why it has to be Python. If someone could rewrite it in Rust then we could do it. Also a medium to large project.
For a lot of the compiling C code stuff we could make the build scripts smarter.

jonathan: Always some stuff to do before the build to make sure the C/C++ compiler to target right platform.

martin: the order thing is important. for example, one of the things we have to do in mach is run things after the build

nico: I feel like rewriting some of this stuff in Rust is a good idea. Some thing will never be ported like WPT some things can be written in Rust such as setting environment variables.

nico: My proposal is not to use build.rs but to have our own build tool written in rust rather than python.

jonathan: One last question about GStreamer plugin. Are you saying it's difficult because it's patching it dynamically?

martin: i think the embedder could turn off media using cargo features. and that would be one way to solve the problems with gstreamer

rakhi: Thanks for joining. See you in coordination call.

