# Servo TSC Meeting August 2025

* Date: Monday 25th Aug 2025 at 09:00 UTC
* Location: https://meet.jit.si/Servo-TSC
* Agenda: https://github.com/servo/project/issues/159

## Agenda

* Status update
* [EU Cyber Act](https://servo.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/263398-general/topic/EU.20Cyber.20Act/with/529304274)
* Servo admins and release managers
* Funding proposal to focus on contribution experience
* [Publishing servo / servoshell on crates.io](https://servo.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/263398-general/topic/Publishing.20servo.20to.20crates.2Eio/with/535745099)
* Roadmap review
* Outreach
* AOB

## Notes

Attending:
* TSC members: atbrakhi, delan, emilio, jschwe, mrego, mrobinson, mukilan, nicoburns, Taym95
* Other: ststimac

### Status update

rego: Lots of work on the project the past couple of months: Every month we are creating more pull requests and getting more contributors. Thank you.
 - Animated image support
 - Inline SVG
 - Canvas improvements
 - CSP and Trusted types
 - Performance and incremental layout
 - Work on WebDriver
 - Devtools networking and debugging tab

### [EU Cyber Act](https://servo.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/263398-general/topic/EU.20Cyber.20Act/with/529304274)

rego: Yu Wei and Gregory were involved in this discussion, but they aren't here, so maybe we can discuss later.

### Servo admins and release managers

rego: [#tsc > Servo Release Managers and Administrators](https://servo.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/500774-tsc/topic/Servo.20Release.20Managers.20and.20Administrators/with/535958687)

rego: There's an ongoing discussion about this. I posted a proposal with 5 names of people from different organizations and people who have been around a long time.

rego: If people are fine with this, we can document this first step and then move on to the topic of release managers.

rego: No comments, so let's move to the next point.

### Funding proposal to focus on contribution experience

rego: https://github.com/servo/project/issues/159#issuecomment-3219039797

rego: We have more than 50k USD. It would be nice to use it for things other than covering self-hosted runners. That's just a bit per month. We used it once for an Outreachy internship - there are two now...Servo sponsored one. There is a proposal to fund time from Josh Mathews who has been working on Servo since essentially forever. He has some hours per month to dedicate to the project. We thought it would make sense to cover that and use the money effectively.

rego: Any comment can be discussed here or in the public Zulip channel.

nico: I put a couple of other things that might be useful use of their time such as managing the coordination meetings and roadmapping and building consensus goals involving people who are further from the center of the project. Doesn't need to be part of this proposal, but could be useful.

rego: https://opencollective.com/servo

nico: Could you remind us how much money we have coming in per month? We could compare it to the amount going out.

rego: https://servo.org/blog/2025/08/22/this-month-in-servo/#donations

rego: I will paste the link to the Open Collective page. In the blog post we also include information about how much we are getting per month.

rego: We would be spending most of the money we are getting per month to do this. We will still have "savings" on top of this. Maybe when people see that we are using the money, we will get more donations.

rego: We could announce this in the Open Collective.

delan: I might have missed the part where you mentioned the income numbers. As of last month we are getting 4600 USD per month. Was there anything else?

rego: Yep.

martin: I think this is a great idea; about the point that maybe more people will donate if they see we're using the money; we can probably explain what we're using with the money to inspire people keeping donating or to donate more

rego: we could do an special blog post
martin: or even a kind of interview

rego: Also people who donate on Open Collective, we can post news there. We posted a summary of expenses in 2024, but we can post directly to donors.rego: #tsc > Funding proposal to focus on contribution experience

rego: Looks like everyone is in agreement. We can also wait for more feedback in the TSC channel.

## Publishing servo / servoshell on crates.io

jonathan: I already posted on Zulip, but now that mozjs doesn't have any vendored crates, we can now publish on crates.io. Currently the mozjs crate is quite large, partially because SpiderMonkey is large, but also because it brings its own Python dependencies. The limit is 10MB, but we can ask for an increase.

jonathan: I think there are some Servo dependencies, but technically they could all be crates.io dependencies, but we'd have to evaluate how reasonable the cargo install workflow would be.

jonathan: I think it will work well on Linux and Mac, but not sure about Windows.

jonathan: We would have to define releases, etc.rego: martin: I think it is great that is possible now; mozjs is a great target; I have a couple of questions: ???, if we publish servo we have to publish all 30-40 crates that we have in the servo land to crates.io (is that something we'd like to do) vs making a servo crate that have things recompiled inside, wonder where we should spend time

jonathan: Maybe for the second part, if we want to publish to crates.io we have to publish all of our components. We would need to discuss the automatically publishing proposal in the TSC. We discussed it, but there was no followup. We could tag servo and script publishes all of the components. That sounds like a low effort thing. We would do it something like once a month.

jonathan: Python dependency-wise, most dependencies come from mach specific dependencies. SpiderMonkey is also tricky, but we have some binary blobs that make it a lot easier. That removes a lot of the compilation difficulties.rego: martin: the other aspect, I agree about the publishing script, but I think there's quite a lot of preparation work, we might need to rename crates, and there are crates like media crate that are complex; once we have things in crates.io we have some responsibility to make it compile, and I think we'll have a bunch of people trying to use servo, and we'll have to do "customer" support as some people will complain like it doesn't compile for me and so on; it feels like we're going to get a lot of bugs, I wonder how we will manage that

nico: If we do this, then we get users and getting people to want to start using Servo. I do think there is potentially a lot of work. The crates in the main Servo repository. Aside from mozjs, they should be relatively straight-forward to publish. I think fontsan, for instance, isn't published. We could reduce the overhead of doing this by doing it less often. I agree with Jonathan that we don't need to promise API stability. We could just publish and there would be breaking changes all the time. We maybe start by making a GitHub issue to track this. There's a a lot of setup work. I don't think it needs to use the same automation that we needed before, but it could be a mach command. I think it would be great to do this if we can.

delan: I think this would be nice to have (to install servoshell with cargo), but only if the effort required only if the work for getting this done is fairly easy. There are a lot of things about cargo install that make it not a great way to distribute applications. The biggest one is that the stock cargo install only builds from source. You have to pass an option if it's not the same version as in the lockfile. You can't distribute binaries. It's nice, but if it's hard, maybe it isn't worth it. We should use a distribution mechanism that actually is built for applications like cargo dist or cargo binstall.

jonathan: I think those are good point, but I would like to add that some of the pain points but we want to make building Servo via cargo easier. Requiring that people use mach to get Servo working is a big ask. There are other ways, such as using the C API and pre-publishing shared objects is a lot of effort. We should make it possible via the standard workflow.rego: martin: I guess the question is we have 2 possibilities: 1 make possible to use servo via cargo by compiling everything; the other option could be to have the C API that could be useful via cargo; so they can consume servo and be ready to go, and don't have to worry about having native compilers; I guess the question is where it makes sense to put our effort, unless there's a way to work in both helps the other one

nico: Can we do a C API that's usable via cargo that doesn't need cargo install. The expectation is that you can do a custom build and that you fall back to doing a custom build on unsupported architectures. The focus should on Servo the library versus servoshell. We could use cargo binstall, but that would be a different focus.

emilio: Do we know how hard it is do use git deps with Servo now?

nico: Is this depending on git Servo as a git dependency?

emilio: Yes.

mukilan: It's not very hard. I tried it a few weeks back. There are a few issues, but they aren't related to it being a git dependency. I had to clone the repo locally.

nico: I haven't personally tried to do this, but my impression is the difficulty is the actual API itself rather than it being a git dependency.

nico: one of the benefits of publishing on cargo is the marketing aspect. Our dependencies like WebRender would be more likely to be consumed from crates.io.

rego: Conclusion: sounds like a good idea, but might be extra work and need to compare it to other priorities. Maybe we can just move coordination to Zulip.rego: Roadmap review

jonathan: Maybe we can create a coordination issue on GitHub and track technical issues.

## Roadmap

rego: https://github.com/servo/servo/wiki/Roadmap

rego: We have a bunch of things on the Roadmap. I don't know the status of all of these things.

rego: First point was the architecture part: resplit script and layout threads.

martin: if there's been work that hasn't been upstreamed, I haven't seen anything in the repository

jonathan: Also not aware of any progress here, but maybe xiaochengh can follow up on Zulip.

rego: **Implement ShadowDOM**. jdm was offering to break down tasks.

nico: Not super familiar with this work, but have seen pull requests in this direction. I know that some support for shadow dom style and pseudo-elements has landed in stylo.

rego: **Editability and interactivity enhancements**. From what I know we haven't worked on this yet, but we still have plans to work on this in H2 and in 2026.rego: martin: layout hit testing landed, which is a big step for this; there has been a lot of work implementing different input events (DOM events)

rego: Next is **CSS grid layout**. @Nico Burns I think you have been working on this.

nico: I can speak to the progress on CSS grid. The main thing that has landed is support for named grid areas and lines. It doesn't make us pass many more tests, but it does help a lot of for real world web sites. Wikipedia and GitHub use this. There is a PR open for calc support in CSS grid. That has been rejected at review, but I'm maintaining the PR to merge or figure out how to remove the unsafe code, but that will require a refactor of taffy to make that work. I guess as a general point, you can see on wpt.fyi that we slightly better than ladybird for CSS grid support. We are a ways behind Chrome and Firefox. If you actually browse web sites, it's pretty good now.

rego: Next is **Streams API**.

taym: We've implemented ReadableStream, WriteableStream and TransformableStream. We have slightly better results than Ladybird. We have a ticket were we have also started working on AbortSignal and AbortController.

rego: We should probably add those to the roadmap. You proposed them 3 weeks ago.

rego: Improving the embedding API. I guess there have been some small improvements.rego: martin: some improvements, including support for executing JS from the embedder; we have now unit tests for the embedding API; in the 2nd half of the year we'll probably start working on the API

rego**: Support for MiniApps** from Gregory

taym: No progress there.

nico: the spec seems to have died. So may no longer be relevant.

rego: **Renderer alternatives**by Yu Wei. Not sure what the status is.

rego: **Infrastructure section: improvements to CI times and self-hosted runners**

nico: Regarding renderer alternatives. I think there's been a lot of discussion. For instance, using existing renderer and making it easier to embed using child windows, etc. Discussion around public display lists and discussion around headless mode with no renderer. No code written on this.

rego: **Improving Onboarding and New Contributors**

nico: I don't think there's been a huge amount of progress from me. I think there's been some in general, but nothing particularly to report.

rego: I suppose that if the proposal with Josh goes ahead there will be work in this area.

rego: **Layout Performance**: Lot of work with incremental layout and still ongoing work. Seems like layout has improved if we run perftests from blink, things have improved in recent months and this will continue.

nico: I haven't been able to work on this, but I think this is done. Not that there is no work to be done. Layout performance seems dramatically better.rego: martin: we have done maybe a first pass of this, mostly 2 things, incrementally building the box tree, and skipping layout work when don't need to be done; we want to improve animation and canvas which is WIP; and also working on fragment tree which is a lot of work and other optimizations

rego: First building blocks in place, but a lot of place for improvements.

rego: Thanks for the updates, apart from proposals from Gregory and Taym, we can add other proposals.

nico: Would it worth creating a blog post. We could use the notes from the meeting. For external people it might be easier to follow blog than meeting minutes.

rego: Yeah, could be a good idea. Especially when we publish new roadmap.

nico: Could make sense to do them together. Part of me makes me want to publish results first so that people are interested in contributing to new roadmap. We could also do it as one thing.rego: Outreach

rego: Not aware of any Servo talks in the next couple months. Martin, Oriol, and myself will be GOSIM Hangzhou next month. Talk and workshop there. in TPAC there will be a bunch of Servo contributors.rego: AOB

## AOB

nico: Quick thing to raise maintenance of the thin-vec crate mostly in Stylo. It's a core dependency of Servo. It's basically unmaintained ATM. I'm on the GitHub. I'm an owner of crates.io crate. We have changes we want to make. Should we move it into the Mozilla or Servo organizations. What would be best? How can we keep this crate maintained?

emilio: Gecko depends on it a bit more heavily because it matches the layout of our C++ types, but living in either org seems fine to me. We need Gankra to agree tho

