# Servo TSC Meeting September 2025

* Date: Monday 29th Sep 2025 at 15:00 UTC
* Location: https://meet.jit.si/Servo-TSC
* Agenda: https://github.com/servo/project/issues/168

## Agenda

* Status update
* Roadmap review
* [Proposal: Resolve popular Contributor nominations quicker](https://servo.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/500774-tsc/topic/Proposal.3A.20Resolve.20popular.20Contributor.20nominations.20quicker/with/540990400)
* [New funding requests procedure](https://github.com/servo/project/blob/main/FUNDING_REQUEST.md) ([issues](https://github.com/servo/project/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20label%3Afunding))
* Outreach
* AOB

## Notes

Attending:
* TSC members: atbrakhi, Loirooriol, mrego, mrobinson, nicoburns
* Other: simonwuelker, ststimac

### Status Update

rego: As usual, lots of things going on.

Improvements to WebDriver, Devtools, TrustedTypes, IndexedDB

Servoshell: favicons, enable experimental features button

Lots of things

### Roadmap review

rego: https://github.com/servo/project/issues/114

rego: Not many people here, so maybe not a lot to discuss. From Igalia we would like to add a11y support to the roadmap. In the next few weeks we are going to start adding initial a11y support to Servo. Complex and tricky, because we want to avoid any kind of performance impact on the engine. Other engines have this penalty. Want to avoid it, but have to see how it's possible. Need to do experiments and research for design.

rego: Goal is to get some initial a11y features implemented so that Servo starts exposing tree to screen readers, etc.

nico: Is the plan to use access-kit for that? I would like encourage anyone working on this to get in touch with Matt Campbell who has thought about this quite a lot. AccessKit is based on the accessibility tree design in Chromium.

rego: I don't think we have a clear plan yet. We are going to explore possibilities. We have that library in mind, but no clear plan. Next month we'll have it clearer.

martin: I think the goal is to try to use access-kit as much as we can, it's still not clear if we can use it for everything or not as the a11y specs are quite clear about the things you have to expose on the different platforms a11y APIs

nico: I would definitely encourage reaching out to Matt Campbell.

rego: Yeah, it probably makes sense. First part is mainly about research and trying to figure out what the best approach is.

rego: No other new roadmap updates.

rego: If folks want to discuss anything else, can do in upcoming meetings.

rego: Xiaochaeng also mentioned in coordination meeting that they want to start working on an abstraction layer which would, in theory, allow using different JavaScript engines. We could probably also add this to the roadmap.

### [Proposal: Resolve popular Contributor nominations quicker](https://servo.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/500774-tsc/topic/Proposal.3A.20Resolve.20popular.20Contributor.20nominations.20quicker/with/540990400)

rego: I would like to resolve this proposal.

martin: I don't want to block this proposal, I think it does make sense people can have the contributor status faster, no problems with that. It's the case that maybe one person could have a reason to potentially block a nomination, and it'd be good to give time to that person (for example if they had previous bad experiences), giving it right away is harder for people to get access. Probably the person has been contributing for weeks without contributor status, maybe one week more is not such a big deal. I also acknowledge it can be frustrating to do a proposal and have to remember 1 week later

rego: Could we put a minimum? Right now if you have 5 people supporting could lead to someone having status in 30 minutes.

nico: Okay with having a day or two. Not worried about having bad people. Hasn't happened yet.

martin: I also feel a little better with a 1-2 days minimum to give a chance. It's a very unlikely thing there would be a problem, these things are almost impossible until they happen; some pretty wild things happened in the open source world these years

rego: I guess we can propose that small change on the PR.

### [New funding requests procedure](https://github.com/servo/project/blob/main/FUNDING_REQUEST.md) ([issues](https://github.com/servo/project/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20label%3Afunding))

rego: We have this new procedure. The funding requests are documented there. We can see how the money is spent and so can everyone else. The next time someone wants to spend money, they just create an issue and then the TSC has a discussion. This is just an informative point.

### Outreach

rego: Lots of things this month. At least 6 Servo talks:
* 2 talks at [WebEvolve 2025 Annual Event](https://www.w3.org/2024/01/webevolve-series-events/annual-2025/high-perf.en.html):
  * [Servo: An independent, lightweight, modular, and parallel processing architecture web engine development](https://www.w3.org/2024/01/webevolve-series-events/annual-2025/slides/jonathan-schwender.pdf) by Jonathan Schwender
  * [MiniApps Design and Servo](https://www.w3.org/2024/01/webevolve-series-events/annual-2025/slides/gregory-terzian.pdf) by Gregory Terzian
* 4 talks at [GOSIM Hangzhou](https://hangzhou2025.gosim.org/):
  * "A Dive Into the Servo Layout System" by Martin Robinson & Oriol Brufau
  * "The Joy and Value of Embedded Servo Systems" by Gregory Terzian
  * "Driving Innovation with Servo and OpenHarmony: Unified Rendering and WebDriver" by Jingshi Shangguan & Zhizhen Ye
  * [Servo: A new web engine written in Rust](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1t15UKit4UPkZ-4ankkvsTJdpQWdBCmeTXLALeLk9n34/edit?usp=sharing) by Manuel Rego

rego: Next events: Only thing I'm aware of it TPAC. There will be a few Servo people there. Idea of proposing a breakout session around Servo at the event. Proposal happening soon.

### AOB

rego: No more topics, so meeting finishes earlier.
