# Servo Technical Steering Committee Meeting

*  Date: [Monday 14th November 2023 at 16:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Servo%20TSC%20Meeting%20November%202023%20(2023-11-14)&iso=20231114T1600)
* Location: https://meet.jit.si/Servo-TSC

## Agenda

* Status update
* Dependencies mess
* Servo crates maintenance
* Multimedia status
* Outreach
* AOB

## Notes

Attending:
* TSC members: cybai, Loirooriol, mrego, mrobinson, mukilan
* Other: joshua-holmes, matlu, nicoburns, wusyong, zrhoffman

### Introductions

rego: As we have new people joining us today let's do a quick round of introductions.

### Status update

rego: Ongoing work on new layout engine. Floats are improving as time passes are more features are implemented. We recently upgraded SpiderMonkey, Stylo has been upgraded to March of this year, WebRender has been upgraded to an older version due to issues we still need to fix.

rego: We have attended EclipseCon and participated in Oniro discussion there. We were talking about an experimental version of Servo for that platform. There are still a few issues, Mukilan can link to them. There has been progress. We did a presentation there.

rego: https://github.com/eclipse-oniro4openharmony/manifest/issues/1

rego: We have made improvements to the Minibrowser location bar. It supports figuring out the URL a bit better. We've been making progress on the API, looking at Tauri integration. We are exploring multi-WebView support. There were a bunch of issues a few weeks ago with dependency upgrades and with newer Python versions. Things are stable now though. Those are the main highlights.

### Dependencies mess

martin: The issue that we have with dependencies, is the number of dependencies we have and the effort it takes to upgrade them

martin: because there are so many depedencies is easy for some package to depend on old versions; at some point we have to decide to don't do an upgrade or have two versions of the same dependency (which can increase the binary size)

martin: I was wondering if we could come with some ideas, about how to avoid this problem in the future

martin: that's why we had to fork some dependencies

nico: is there a particular example of a dependency causing issues?

martin: we were having issues with winit, that was depending on an old version of the bindings for MacOS; it was tricky to untangle the upgrade

martin: winit depends on beta version of software that doesn't have stable release cycles

martin: we have some dependencies that the major version is zero, so every major upgrade is a problem from us; quite a bit of API inestability in the rust ecosystem in general

nico: one of the maintainers of winit is also the creator of one of these libraries, so it makes sense they're using new things

nico: maybe using nightly rustc is causing issues?

martin: we agree that this is causing us problem, one thing would be to make the changes needed to make servo build on a stable version of rust

martin: it requires to stop using nightly only features

nico: probably that's probably a big task

nico: maybe you could do try a specific environment variable that will allow using feature flags in stable rust.

martin: that sounds like a good idea for a transitionary state, please paste a link

martin: seems like a little bit of work but maybe not impossible

wu yu wei: martin already mentions the problem I was mentioning; some nightly rustc might break some things

wu yu wei: servo has a lock file, but when people try without that there would be breaking changes

rego: Sounds like no other ideas here about dependencies, but maybe in the future we can think of a plan for the future.

nico: Is there tooling that can help find duplicates?

martin: we have tools to detect duplicates, the build will break

martin: you can add a temporary exception; we try not to do that, and are eliminating about of them

nico: the size of dependencies crates is just ridiculous

martin: we depend on many things, would be good to reduce that number

### Servo crates maintenance

rego: Delan from the Igalia team has been looking at the Servo crates and adding comments on them. If you look at the Rust crates, there are quite a few published from the servo projects.

rego: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1CNEPUytBMTZWUCZ1MgXPaMRuh6EIL10ykYabzw1fnME/edit?usp=sharing

rego: There are some that need maintenance and have quite a bit of open issues.

rego: Maybe we can include these in plans for next year. We haven't had time this year, but hopefully next year we'll have time.

nico: I think there are more crates than that in the Servo project. cssparser isn't on the spreadsheet, for example.

martin: surfman is also missing.

nico: There are also different categories of crates. Some of them you are probably going to be actively worked on. I think it would be nice to build a community around some of the crates. Things like the html5 parser should have a lot of interest. When Mozilla dropped Servo there were no maintainers. Lots of orphaned pull requests.

nico: A lot of the Servo crates lack a lot of documentation. Standard rustdoc there, but things like WebRender are very hard to use. Applies to many of the crates. Not sure how familiar you all are with Servo crates.

martin: it's a mix, some crates we have more insight into; some of them we have less

martin: the bigger and more complex ones is probably when we have more insight on like webrender and mozjs; but smaller ones like rust-url we have been paying less attention

### Multimedia status

martin: Servo has depended on gstreamer for a long time, and we depend on an old version of gstreamer rust code; this is a problem

martin: we've discovered a new issue, that newer version of gstreamer have been making api changes; so if we upgrade the dependencies, we'll get some problems and our code will be broken with these new versions

martin: this requires quite a bunch of work; or either fixing the bug in gstreamer that introduced the backwards compatibility issue; another one is to try to modify servo so that it works with the new gstreamer

martin: the question is if we should try to fix this, or disable multimedia while we cannot find time to do that

martin: without fixing this video and audio are broken

mats: does anyone from the community can help with this?

martin: we've got some insight from gstreamer maintainer and some people at Igalia, but not sure if they would have time

martin: maybe we can arrange a chat with Sebastian Dröge to see if he has ideas

mats: do we have an issiue?

martin: https://github.com/servo/media/pull/393

rego: it looks like we need some more time to make a decision here

### Outreach

rego: I mentioned that we recently attended EclipseCon. Martin went to GOSIM and his talk and workshop have been published. There are links to the presentations. We have updated the demo.servo.org site and now include some recently videos that we made showing Servo running on the rpi. There's also a new WebGPU demo there.

rego: Conference-wise the end of the year is typically slow, so probably nothing new on that front in the next couple months. We have plans for next year though.

### AOB

mats: Maybe you could mention some of the stats we've collected?

rego: Checking the number of contributors this year we are 100 different people. Most of them 1 or 2 commits. That's still way better than last year (20 people).

rego: In commits we have passed 2200 commits versus 500 commits from last year.

Fabrice Desré: does that include the automated crate bumps?

rego: yeah, in both cases

rego: It seems like there's some more activity and that's good. More external contributors and more repeat contributors.

mats: Any update on the webview interface?

wu yu wei: I've been working on recently, but I think that the Servo API is good enough. I'm currently working on my own wry crate to add it as a port. Not sure about whether we should use winit by default. It's the straight-forward choice. For my MVP I'll demonstrate how to use winit at least. It will be very similar to the wry crate (tauri dependency). API very similar to that. I'll try my best to include other libraries using a raw window handle interface.

wu yu wei: I'm also interested in using the headless mode for offscreen rendering. I'd like to make those APIs as flexible as possible.

mats: When do you think that will be ready?

wu yu wei: I hope I can show an early demo at the end of the month.

mats: Maybe we can build some binaries on top of your MVP for outreach.

nico: I have a general question, Igalia has picked up servo and they are working on great things like float support. Is there an overall goal? Are you trying to turn it into a product to sell or certain usecases?

rego: The idea this year was to reactivate the product. The reason we are working on layout was that it lacked some important features. The goal is to get some examples of potential applications that are using Servo such as this Tauri experiment. That's the short term goal. Long term goal is harder to say.

mats: Miniapps also an idea that can bear fruit in 2024.

mats: Trying to become a W3C standard. There's a paper, but it also needs support in the engines. Another example of a more controlled usecase. There are lots of opportunities here. I would love to see Electron open up for an alternative engine.

mats: There is growth here. We are working on Tauri and also Dioxus. We would like to discuss the roadmap as well. We will have a thread on that on Zulip chat. We'd love to hear from you.

nico: I come from a perspective of the many projects trying to create desktop or native UI using rust. It would be useful if Servo could become more modular. It'd be cool if Servo could make this available for everyone. It would be cool if it could be a truly modular browser where you can use the bits that you want or turn bits off.

mats: Binary size also important for app stores / android. Another issue is a11y. It would be good to do it not as an after-thought and make it the default.

nico: There's another library called accesskit. It's an abstraction that might be able to be integrated.

mats: Seems like something we should investigate.

nico: https://github.com/AccessKit/accesskit

martin: yeah to work on a11y probably accesskit is the obvious choice; the a11y web specs are very explicit about platforms and what should be exposed in each of them; so we'd need to make sure that accesskit allows to do something like that

martin: that comes from the a11y API mappings AAM spec, which talks about what becomes what in the platform a11y

cybai: we have an issue for basic a11y support at https://github.com/servo/servo/issues/4344.

rego: thank you everyone for joining us, see you in the next call

