# Servo TSC Meeting April 2026

* Date: [Monday 27th Apr 2026 at 09:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Servo%20TSC%20Meeting%20April%202026%20(2026-04-27)&iso=20260427T0900)
* Location: https://meet.jit.si/Servo-TSC
* Agenda: https://github.com/servo/project/issues/227

## Agenda

* Status update
* Roadmap Update (see [#general > Roadmap](https://servo.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/263398-general/topic/Roadmap/with/580266351))
* [Grant program](https://servo.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/500774-tsc/topic/Servo.20grant.20program.3F/with/590140064)
* [Funding request: MSE API](https://servo.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/500774-tsc/topic/Grant.20program.20proposal/with/590121240)
* [Immutable releases](https://servo.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/500774-tsc/topic/Immutable.20releases/with/584373789)
* Outreach
* AOB

## Notes

Attending:
* TSC members: atbrakhi, emilio, jschwe, mrego, mrobinson, mukilan, nicoburns, SimonSapin
* Other: kkoyung

### Status update

rego: We canceled the previous TSC call due to no quorum. These past few months have been the most active in the project history. Outreachy period ongoing. Lots of things happening. The monthly blog post summarizes things.

rego: One of big things the Servo 0.1 release and the release of Servo to crates.io. Significant achievement and makes it easier to try Servo.
* Improvements to Android UI
* FreeBSD port
* IndexedDB is an experimental feature
* Improvements to devtools
* WebDriver, WebCrypto API. Reflected in WPT pass rates.

rego: Thanks everyone.

### Roadmap Update (see [#general > Roadmap](https://servo.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/263398-general/topic/Roadmap/with/580266351))

rego: I have been cleaning up and working on the roadmap. We used to have a wiki page that became outdated, so we have switched to using a project on GitHub. Not complete, but has a bunch of things (todo, in progress, complete).

rego: roadmap: https://github.com/orgs/servo/projects/35

rego: Please go to what you are working on and update with the current status of the issue. We can use GitHub sub-issues to track this.

rego: We have a couple issues to collect updates to the roadmap. For things that people are working on or have plans to work on. Another issue for roadmap ideas: useful things, but no one is working on them now.

rego: roadmap updates: https://github.com/servo/project/issues/114

rego: roadmap ideas: https://github.com/servo/project/issues/229

rego: Review some of those issues:

* From Igalia: Simplifying using GStreamer with Servo. Actively working on this.
* Proposals from Gregory and Taym: SharedWorker, OffscreenCanvas, decoupling SpiderMonkey and reducing unsafe code in Script

rego: If everyone is fine with this we will add them to the roadmap project. If anyone is working on something else, you can add them there. Again, update status on active issues.

rego: Ideas:

* From Igalia: writing mode support. We have plans to work on this during this year, but we don't know when. Hopefully this year we can announce that we are working on this.

martin: I think it was simon the one that was interested in working on web animations, maybe we could add it to the roadmap

rego: Yeah, we should add things to the roadmap. Just leaving a comment on the roadmap issue and we can transfer that into the roadmap.

### [Grant program](https://servo.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/500774-tsc/topic/Servo.20grant.20program.3F/with/590140064)

rego: Josh suggested that we use OpenCollective funds to let people apply to fix certain issues we select. They apply, we select, and then we pay for that work. There has been some discussion there. There hasn't been anything specific about how to move forward with it.

martin: I'm curious how this relates to Outreachy, how the 2 programs will interact

rego: I think that Outreachy is for a first experience. You can't really expect results. In this case the goal would be finish a feature. Josh mentioned the case of intersection observer. The goal would be doing that and not just getting someone familiar with the project.

emilio: I'm not opposed to the idea, but I'm curious how it would play out in practice. It feels like you either know the person that's applying or -- is the idea to vet the candidate somehow? There are are a lot of details to sort out. Not opposed in principle.

rego: I agree there are a lot of details about how to do this. If we get many people applying, how do we manage that? Just a general idea from Josh, but we'd need a more specific proposal.

emilio: Fair, seems cool in principle, but lots of details to make it work in practice. As long as someone is willing to spend the time sorting out those details, seems okay. Maybe we try with a pilot and see how it works out.

rego: Yeah, maybe giving it one or two tries and see how it goes. We can keep working on this and see if we can get more details.

### [Funding request: MSE API](https://servo.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/500774-tsc/topic/Grant.20program.20proposal/with/590121240)

rego: Funding request that comes from Kingsley. Regular funding request, so unlike previous proposal. Would be about adding support for MSE in Servo. Not many comments on Zulip. Not sure about the requested time (80 hours) for a feature like MSE. We can consider it a normal funding proposal.

rego: https://github.com/servo/project/blob/main/FUNDING_REQUEST.md

rego: the proposal is at https://gist.github.com/kkoyung/5e444b512c432fc8ff71c52fcf019521

emilio: Any rough implementation plan that could be shared?

rego: Proposal is linked there, but I'm not sure if there is anything more specific.

emilio: I was hoping for something a bit more complete, like what is the concrete set of plans. Doesn't need to be super specific, seems there could be lots of bits of complexity. I think the implementation is probably harder than 80 hours. Does this include having a license, etc?

rego: I think that's more EME. MSE and EME are related, but ultimately different. EME is the one with the license.

emilio: Yeah, I lack some context, but I know that Igalia has that expertise.

rego: I will try to ask the people working internally on this and try to share some thoughts on Zulip regarding this issue.

### [Immutable releases](https://servo.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/500774-tsc/topic/Immutable.20releases/with/584373789)

jonathan: It's about a setting on GitHub. After you create and publish a release, you can't modify a release any more. Has the benefit that you cannot edit release artifacts. If you create mozjs with precompiled artifact, you cannot go back and change things. It's not perfect. Admins can disable feature make a change and enable it again -- though there would be an audit log. Still, maybe it would help improve things. The only downside is that we have servo-build-deps. Maybe we could enable immutable releases for all other repositories, or make an exception for that one. Normally, there's no good reason to mutate a release after it's been released.

martin: it seems like a good idea to me

emilio: Me as well. Especially if we don't have any current workflow that depends on that. If we need to keep it around for the dependencies thing, sure, but yeah, especially now that we are publishing Servo itself.

rego: Sounds like everyone agrees. Reactions on Zulip were positive too. Seems to be approved.

### Outreach

rego: RustWeek 2026, May 18-23: https://2026.rustweek.org/

rego: Few people working on Servo will be at Rust week. Josh has a talk there.

rego: https://2026.rustweek.org/talks/josh/

simon: I will be there and a couple other people from Servo's Zulip will be there as well.

rego: Web Engines Hackfest 2026, Jun 15-17: https://webengineshackfest.org/

rego: Many of us will be at the WEH, Josh, Simon Wuelker, etc. Pretty sure there will be some Servo breakout sessions / discussions. Those are the main things I'm aware of.

### AOB

jonathan: What do we think are Servo's benefits. Why would people want to invest in Servo. Original thread from 2020. Some people would like to see Servo as a full blown browser engine. Funding come in that direction such as from NLNet. Interest in modularity such as for embedded usecases. All of those have different trade offs. For instance, on a browser usecase accessibility is necessary, but on an embedded device accessibility is just overhead and bloat. Do we want to have a discussion about where we see realistic usecases for Servo such as NLNet and EU grant. What kind of niche can we fit into?

jonathan: Would be nice to have a clearer idea of where we see Servo so that we have  pitch to people for why to invest.

rego: https://github.com/servo/project/issues/8

rego: This is important and interesting.

jonathan: We can follow up later in the Zulip chat.

